[•) ~ t!\!4 #I 
Turning dreams into reality 
OL/SE/533/September 2023-24 
BSE Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers Limited 
Dalal Street , Mumbai 400 001 
Security Code: 532880 
September 06,2023 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurlu Complex, 
Bandra (E) Mumbai 400 051 
Symbol: OMAXE 
Subject: 341h Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the shareholders of Omaxe Limited ("the 
Company") 
Ref: Disclosure under Regulation 34 and other applicable regulations of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended 
Dear Madam/Sir, 
We wish to inform, pursuant to the appl icable provisions of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 20 15 and in accordance with the applicable circulars issued by 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs ( MCA ) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India ( SEBI), the 
34'
11 Annual General Meeting of the equity shareholders ("Members") of Omaxe Limited ("the 
Company") will be held on Friday, September 29, 2023 at 12:00 noon (1ST) through Video 
Conferencing/Other Audio Visual Means, without the physical presence of Members at a common 
venue ("AGM"). 
We enclose herewith the Notice convening AGM and Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23. 
The said documents are also uploaded on the website of the Company i.e. www.omaxe.com. 
Further, please note that the Company has, today i.e. September 6, 2023, completed the dispatch of the 
Notice of AGM and Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23, through e-mail, to a ll its 
Members/shareholders, holding equity shares of the Company as on September 1, 2023 and w hose 
email IDs are registered with the Company/Company' s Registrar & Share Transfer Agent, Link In time 
India Pvt. Ltd./Depositories, in compliance with applicable circulars issued by MCA and SEBI. 
The Cut-off date for the purpose of determining the Members, who shall be eligible to vote on the 
resolutions set out in the Notice of the AGM and to attend the AGM, is Friday, September 22, 2023 
and the voting rights of the Members shall be in proportion to their shareholding as on Cut-off date i.e. 
September 22, 2023 in the paid up equity share capital of Company. 
The Register of Members and the Share Transfer Books of the Company will remain closed from 
Saturday, September 23, 2023 to Friday, September 29, 2023 (both days inclusive), for annual closing 
(for the purpose of AGM). 
This is for your information and record. 
For Omaxe Limited 
I TED 
Encl: As above. 
"This is to inform that please make all correspondence with us on our Corporat e office Address only" 
OMAXE LIMITED 
Corporate Office : 7, Local Shopping Centre, Kalkaji, New Delhi-110019. 
Tel.: +91-11-41896680-85, 41893100 
Regd. Office: Shop No. 19-B, First Floor, Omaxe Celebration Mall, Sohna Road, Gurgaon - 122 001, (Haryana) 
Toll Free No. 18001020064, Website: www.omaxe.com, CIN: L74899HR1989PLC051918 
VIKAS 
KHANDEL
WAL
Digitally signed by VIKAS KHANDELWAL 
DN: c=IN, o=PERSONAL, title=2802, 
pseudonym=17a0a7b53e804a24894efe9
7fd3bade6, 
2.5.4.20=d09456bb77942eb3b4186f5b23
19325f844c835ba4c1b19e1376ef8defedc
0d4, postalCode=110075, st=Delhi, 
serialNumber=4b2f50abb8d7b389c23aea
6f0d9ce8a815a313bd79665a7d2f6e9a58
a2abb9d3, cn=VIKAS KHANDELWAL 
Date: 2023.09.06 19:06:37 +05'30'
 
1 | P a g e  
 
 Omaxe Limited 
Registered Office: 19-B, First Floor, Omaxe Celebration Mall, 
Sohna Road, Gurugram, Haryana-122001 
CIN: L74899HR1989PLC051918; Telephone No. 011-41893100 
Website: www.omaxe.com; E-mail Id: secretarial_1@omaxe.com 
 
NOTICE OF 34TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 
 
NOTICE is hereby given that the 34th Annual General Meeting of the Members of Omaxe Limited will be held on Friday, 
September 29, 2023 at 12:00 Noon through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”) 
(“AGM”), to seek the consent of the shareholders of the Company (“Members”), on the business items herein below. 
 
The proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office of the Company which shall be the 
deemed venue of the AGM. 
 
ORDINARY BUSINESS: 
 
1. 
To consider and adopt the audited standalone and consolidated financial statements of the Company for the 
financial year ended on March 31, 2023, together with the report of the Board of Directors and reports of the 
Auditors thereon. 
  
2. 
To declare dividend on 0.1% Non-Cumulative, Redeemable, Non-Convertible Preference Shares for the 
financial year 2022-23. 
 
3. 
To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Rohtas Goel (DIN: 00003735), Director of the Company, who retires by 
rotation and being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment. 
 
 
SPECIAL BUSINESS: 
 
4. 
CONFIRMATION/ RATIFICATION OF REMUNERATION PAID TO MR. ROHTAS GOEL DURING 
THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2022-23 
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as a Special Resolution: 
 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V and other applicable provisions, if 
any, of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the approval of Members of the Company be and is hereby accorded to confirm/ 
ratify the remuneration paid to Mr. Rohtas Goel in the capacity of Chairman & Whole-Time Director of the Company, 
amounting to Rs. 4,80,00,000/- during the Financial Year 2022-23 in absence of profits. 
  
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Executive Director(s) and/or the Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby 
severally authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be deemed necessary or desirable to give effect 
to this resolution.” 
 
5. 
CHANGE IN DESIGNATION OF MR. ROHTAS GOEL (DIN: 00003735) FROM “CHAIRMAN & 
WHOLE-TIME DIRECTOR” TO “CHAIRMAN & NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR/ NON-
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN” AND PAYMENT OF REMUNERATION 
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution: 
 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 152, 196, 197, 198 & all other applicable provisions of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with Schedule V of the Act and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
 
2 | P a g e  
 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(including any amendment thereto or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force), and subject to the 
approval/permissions, if any, as may be required, and in accordance with Articles of Association and policy on appointment 
and remuneration of directors of the Company and at the recommendations of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
and the Board of Directors of the Company, the consent of the Members of the Company be and is hereby accorded to re-
designate Mr. Rohtas Goel (DIN: 00003735) as “Chairman & Non-Executive Director / Non-Executive Chairman” of the 
Company, liable to retire by rotation, consequent upon his relinquishment of office of Executive Director of the Company 
with effect from May 27, 2023, within the same limits of remuneration and tenure, as approved by the shareholders of the 
Company at their 33rd Annual General Meeting held on September 28, 2022 and the revised structure of remuneration is 
indicated below: 
 
Tenure 
5 Years with effect from 01st April, 2023 to 31st March, 2028 
Gross Remuneration 
Up to Rs. 40,00,000/- (Rupees Forty Lakh Only) per month 
Perquisites and Allowances 
As may be deemed fit to the Board of Directors upon the recommendation of 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee of the Company in terms of policy of the 
Company. 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT subject to the provisions of Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013, the aforesaid 
remuneration shall be paid within the applicable limit(s) and period thereof, whenever and wherever applicable, as 
minimum remuneration to Mr. Rohtas Goel in the event of loss or inadequacy of profits in any financial year during the 
tenure of his appointment and the Board of Directors may at recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee, 
from time to time, vary or modify the above terms including the remuneration as it thinks fit during the tenure of 
appointment, provided however that such variation is as per the provisions/limits laid down under the Companies Act, 2013 
and rules made thereunder. 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT except for the change in designation & remuneration structure, as above, and 
continuation of remuneration in the capacity of non-executive director designated as “Chairman & Non-Executive Director 
/ Non-Executive Chairman”, the other terms & conditions of appointment of Mr. Rohtas Goel shall remain unchanged, as 
approved by the shareholders at their 33rd Annual General Meeting held on September 28, 2022. 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Executive Director(s) and/or the Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby 
severally authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be deemed necessary or desirable to give effect 
to this resolution.” 
 
6. 
PAYMENT OF REMUNERATION TO MR. ROHTAS GOEL (DIN: 00003735), CHAIRMAN & NON- 
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE COMPANY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24, WHICH MAY 
EXCEED 50% OF THE TOTAL ANNUAL REMUNERATION PAYABLE TO ALL OTHER NON-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY 
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as a Special Resolution: 
 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to  the provisions of Regulation 17(6)(ca) and other applicable provisions of the SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013, if any and the Rules framed thereunder, as amended from time to time, and in accordance with Articles of Association 
and policy on appointment and remuneration of directors of the Company and at the recommendations of the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee and Board of Directors of the Company, the consent of the Members of the Company be and 
is hereby accorded to pay a remuneration, as set out in the statement annexed to this notice, to Mr. Rohtas Goel (DIN: 
00003735), in the capacity of Chairman & Non-Executive Director of the Company, which may exceed 50% of total 
remuneration payable to all other Non-Executive Directors for the financial year 2023-24.  
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Executive Director(s) and/or the Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby 
severally authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be deemed necessary or desirable to give effect 
to this resolution.” 
 
 
3 | P a g e  
 
7. 
APPROVAL FOR PAYMENT OF COMMISSION OF UPTO 1% OF THE NET PROFITS OF THE 
COMPANY TO THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS  
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution:  
 
“RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 and any other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with Companies (Appointment & Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and pursuant to the 
provisions of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (including the statutory 
modifications or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force) and in accordance with Articles of Association and policy 
on appointment and remuneration of directors of the Company, the consent of the Members of the Company be and is 
hereby accorded for payment of Commission of upto 1% (one percent) of the Net Profits of the Company in a financial 
year (FY), as calculated under Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013, to the Non- Executive Director(s) of the Company, 
who are not in the whole-time employment of the Company, over a period of five years i.e. from FY 2023-24 to FY 2027-
28. 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors be and are hereby authorised to determine, within the limits as 
approved by the Members of the Company, the exact amount of commission payable to any one or more Non-Executive 
Director(s) of the Company and the manner, periodicity and interval of such payment as it may deem fit and to vary or 
modify the amount of commission, from time to time, as it may deem fit at the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee. 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Executive Director(s) and/or the Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby 
severally authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be deemed necessary or desirable to give effect 
to this resolution.” 
 
8. 
REMUNERATION OF M/S S.K. BHATT & ASSOCIATES, COST ACCOUNTANTS, COST 
AUDITORS OF THE COMPANY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24 
 
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution: 
 
“RESOLVED THAT subject to the provisions of Section 148 and applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014 (including any Statutory modification(s) or re- enactment thereof 
for the time being in force), M/s S.K. Bhatt & Associates, Cost Accountants (Firm Registration No.: 000312), appointed as Cost 
Auditors by the Board of Directors to conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company for the financial year ending on 
March 31, 2024, be paid a remuneration upto Rs. 2,00,000/- plus out of pocket expenses and applicable taxes as recommended 
by the Audit Committee of the Company. 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors be and are hereby authorised to determine, within the limits as 
approved by the Members of the Company, the exact amount of remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors, as it may deem 
fit at the recommendation of Audit Committee. 
 
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Executive Director(s) and/or the Company Secretary of the Company be and are hereby 
severally authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as may be deemed necessary or desirable to give effect 
to this resolution.” 
 
 
Date: 10th August, 2023 
Place: New Delhi 
Regd. Office: 19-B, First Floor, 
Omaxe Celebration Mall, Sohna Road,  
Gurugram, Haryana -122001 
By order of the Board 
For Omaxe Limited
Sd/-
Vikas Khandelwal
Company Secretary
(M. No. A18475)
 
 
 
 
4 | P a g e  
 
NOTES:  
1. The statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 setting out material facts concerning the special business 
under Item Nos. 4 to 8 are annexed hereto and forms part of this Notice. The relevant details as required under Regulation 36(3) 
of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI LODR”) & Secretarial Standard-2 of the 
person seeking Appointment/Re-appointment as Director are also annexed herewith as Annexure A & B. 
2. Pursuant to General Circular no. 20/2020 dated May 5, 2020 read with General Circular Nos. 14/2020, 17/2020, 39/2020, 
02/2021, 19/2021, 21/2021, 2/2022, 10/2022 dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, December 31, 2020, January 13, 2021, 
December 08, 2021, December 14, 2021, May 05, 2022 and December 28, 2022, respectively issued by Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs, 
Government 
of 
India 
(collectively 
referred 
to 
as 
“MCA 
Circulars”) 
and 
SEBI 
Circular 
no. 
SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 dated May 12, 2020, SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 
May 13, 2022 and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/CIR/2023/4 dated January 05, 2023 issued by the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (collectively referred to as “SEBI Circulars”), the 34th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is being held 
through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means (“OAVM”), without the physical presence of the Members 
at a common venue. The proceedings of the AGM shall be deemed to be conducted at the Registered Office of the Company 
which shall be the deemed venue of the AGM. 
The Company has made arrangements through Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd. (LIIPL), Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA), 
of the Company to provide Video Conferencing (VC) / Other Audio-Visual Means (OAVM) facility for the 34th AGM and for 
conducting of the e-AGM. 
3. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 105 the Companies Act, 2013, a Member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is entitled 
to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote on his/ her behalf and the Proxy need not be a Member of the Company. However, since 
this AGM is being held pursuant to the applicable MCA and SEBI Circulars as mentioned hereinabove, through VC/ OAVM, 
physical attendance of Members has been dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of Proxies by the Members 
will not be available for the AGM and hence the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip including Route Map are not annexed to this 
AGM Notice. 
4. Institutional/ Corporate Members (i.e. other than individuals / HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a scanned copy (PDF/JPG 
Format) of its Board or governing body resolution/ authorization etc., authorizing its representative to attend the AGM through 
VC/ OAVM on its behalf and to vote through remote e-voting. The said resolution/ authorization shall be sent by email through 
its registered email address to secretarial_1@omaxe.com with a copy marked to enotices@linkintime.co.in. 
5. In case of joint holders attending the Meeting, only such joint holder who is higher in order of names will be entitled to vote.  
6. In accordance with the aforesaid MCA Circulars and SEBI Circulars and in compliance of in compliance with the provisions of 
the Act and the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR), the financial statements including report of Board of Directors, 
Auditor’s report or other documents required to be attached therewith and the Notice of AGM, are being sent in electronic mode 
to Members whose e-mail address is registered with the Company or the Depositories/ Depository Participants (DP). In case 
any member is desirous of obtaining hard copy of the Annual Report for the financial year 2022-23, he/she may send request to 
the Company’s email id at secretarial_1@omaxe.com mentioning their Folio No./DP ID and Client ID. Members may note that 
the Annual Report and 34th AGM Notice are available on the Company’s website at https://www.omaxe.com/investor and 
websites of the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and 
www.nseindia.com, respectively. 
7. Rule 18 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 requires a company to provide advance opportunity 
at least once in a Financial Year to the Members to register his/her e-mail Ids and any changes therein. In accordance with the 
said requirements, we request the Members who do not have their e-mail Ids registered, get the same registered with their DP 
or RTA of the Company. 
8. The Register of Directors’ and Key Managerial Personnel and their shareholding maintained under Section 170 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the Register of Contracts or Arrangements in which the Directors are interested, maintained under Section 189 of 
the Act, and all documents referred to in the Notice, are available for inspection by the Members electronically from the date of 
circulation of this Notice up to the date of this 34th AGM. Members who wish to inspect the documents, may send their request 
through an email at secretarial_1@omaxe.com. 
 
9. In terms of the Articles of Association of the Company read with Section 152 of the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Rohtas Goel 
(DIN: 00003735), Director of the Company, is liable to retire by rotation at this Annual General Meeting and being eligible 
offered himself for re-appointment as Director. The Board of Directors, at the recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration 
of Committee, has proposed his re-appointment. Further, Mr. Rohtas Goel was also re-designated as Chairman & Non-Executive 
Director/Non-Executive Chairman w.e.f. May 27, 2023 consequent upon his relinquishment of office of Executive Director. The 
Board of Directors, at the recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee, has approved the payment of 
 
5 | P a g e  
 
remuneration, as set out in the resolution at Item No. 5, to Mr. Rohtas Goel, subject to approval of Members of the Company.  
 
10. Members desiring any information with regard to financial statements are requested to write to the Company at 
secretarial_1@omaxe.com at an early date so as to enable the management to keep the information ready.  
 
11. Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, 
2022 has mandated the listed companies to issue securities in dematerialized form only while processing service requests viz. 
Issue of duplicate securities certificate, claim from unclaimed suspense account, renewal/ exchange of securities certificate, 
endorsement, sub-division/splitting of securities certificate, consolidation of securities certificates/folios, transmission and 
transposition. Also, pursuant to Regulation 40 of SEBI LODR, as amended, securities of listed companies can be transferred 
only in dematerialized form with effect from, April 1, 2019, except in case of request received for transmission or transposition 
of securities. In view of the same and to eliminate all risks associated with physical shares and avail various benefits of 
dematerialization, Members are advised to dematerialize the shares held by them in physical form. Members can contact the 
Company or Company’s RTA i.e. Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd., for assistance in this regard. 
 
12. Members holding shares in physical mode and desirous of making nominations are requested to send their request in Form SH-
13 under the Companies Act, 2013 to the Registrar & Share Transfer Agent of the Company. 
 
13. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has mandated registration of Permanent Account Number (PAN) and Bank 
Account Details for all securities holders. Members holding shares in physical form are therefore, requested to submit their PAN 
and Bank Account Details to the Company/ Registrar and Share Transfer Agent by sending a duly signed letter along with self-
attested copy of PAN Card and original cancelled Cheque. The original cancelled Cheque should bear the name of the Member. 
The alternative Members are requested to submit a copy of Bank Passbook / Statement Attested by the bank. Members holding 
shares in demat form are requested to submit the aforesaid information to their respective Depository Participant. 
 
14. Members holding shares in Electronic (DEMAT) form or in physical mode are requested to quote their DPID & Client ID or 
Folio details respectively in all correspondences, including dividend matters to the RTA i.e. Link Intime India Private Limited 
or the Secretarial Department of the Company. 
 
15. Members may join the 34th AGM through VC/OAVM Facility by following the procedure as mentioned below which shall be 
kept open for the Members from 11:45 a.m. IST i.e. 15 minutes before the time scheduled to start the 34th AGM and the Company 
may close the window for joining the VC/OAVM Facility 15 minutes after the scheduled time to start the 34th AGM. The 
instructions and other information relating to remote e-voting, participation in the AGM through VC/OAVM and e-voting during 
the 34th AGM are integral part of this Notice. 
 
16. The attendance of the Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose of ascertaining the 
quorum under Section 103 of the Companies Act, 2013. 
 
17. Pursuant to Section 108 of the Act read with Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014 as 
amended for time being in force and Regulation 44 of the SEBI LODR and Secretarial Standards on General Meetings (SS-2) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, the Company is pleased to provide the facility of remote e-voting to all 
the members. The complete instructions on e-voting facility provided by the Company are annexed to this Notice, explaining the 
process of e-voting with necessary user id and password. Members who are present in meeting through video conferencing 
facility and have not cast their vote on resolutions through remote e-voting, shall be allowed to vote through e-voting system 
during the meeting. 
 
18. Members of the Company are requested to note that as per the provisions of Section 124 of the Companies Act, 2013, dividends 
not en-cashed/ claimed by the Members of the Company, within a period of 7 (seven) years from the date of declaration of 
dividend, shall be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) by the Company. Accordingly, during the 
FY 2022-23, Rs. 9,85,528/- and 24492 equity shares were transferred to the IEPF Authority, after giving due notice to the 
Members of the Company. The Members, whose unclaimed dividend/shares have been transferred to IEPF, may claim the same 
by making an online application to the IEPF Authority in web Form No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in.  
 
Members/claimants whose shares and/or unclaimed dividend have been transferred to the Fund, may claim the shares or apply 
for refund by making an application to IEPF Authority in Form No. IEPF-5 (available on www.iepf.gov.in) along with requisite 
fees as decided by the Authority from time to time. Members/claimants can file only one consolidated claim in a Financial Year 
as per IEPF Rules. The Company and IEPF Authority shall deal with the application in the manner provided in IEPF Rules. 
It is in the Members interest to claim any un-cashed dividends and for future, opt for Electronic Clearing Service, so that 
dividends paid by the Company are credited to the Members account on time. The details of the unclaimed dividends are available 
on the Company’s website at https://www.omaxe.com/investor/iepf and IEPF Authority’s website at www.iepf.gov.in. 
19. Non-Resident Indian Members are requested to inform Registrar and Share Transfer Agent and their relevant DP’s immediately 
 
6 | P a g e  
 
of: Change in their residential status on return to India for permanent settlement. Particulars of their bank account maintained in 
India with complete name, branch, account type, account number and address of the bank with pin code number, if not furnished 
earlier. 
20. The Company has fixed Friday, September 22, 2023 as Record Date/Cut-off date for determining the eligibility of Members 
entitled to vote at the ensuing AGM. The remote e-voting shall remain open for a period of 3 days commencing from 9.00 a.m. 
(IST) on Tuesday, September 26, 2023 up to 5.00 p.m. (IST) on Thursday, September 28, 2023 (both days inclusive). 
 
21. The Register of Members and Share Transfer Books of the Company shall remain closed from Saturday, September 23, 2023 to 
Friday, September 29, 2023 (both days inclusive) for the purpose of 34th AGM of the Company. 
 
22. The Board of Directors has appointed M/s Ankit Ghorawat & Associates, Company Secretaries, as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize 
the voting at the meeting and remote e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner. 
 
23. Remote e-Voting Instructions for shareholders: 
 
As per the SEBI circular dated December 9, 2020, individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode can register directly 
with the depository or will have the option of accessing various ESP portals directly from their demat accounts. 
 
Login 
method 
for 
Individual 
shareholders 
holding 
securities 
in 
demat 
mode 
is 
given 
below: 
 
1. Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with NSDL 
a. 
Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL viz... https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a personal 
computer or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the "Beneficial Owner" icon under "Login"" which 
is available under 'IDeAS' section, this will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After 
successful authentication, you will be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on "Access 
to e-Voting" under e-Voting services and you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-
Voting service provider name i.e. LINKINTIME and you will be re-directed to “InstaVote” website for casting 
your vote during the remote e-Voting period. 
b. If you are not  registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com Select 
"Register Online for IDeAS Portal" or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp 
c. 
Visit 
the 
e-Voting 
website 
of 
NSDL. 
Open 
web 
browser 
by 
typing 
the 
following 
URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/  either on a personal computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-
Voting system is launched, click on the icon "Login" which is available under 'Shareholder/Member' section. A 
new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen-digit demat account number hold 
with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you 
will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-
Voting service provider name i.e. LINKINTIME and you will be redirected to “InstaVote” website for casting 
your vote during the remote e-Voting period. 
 
2. Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with CDSL 
a. 
Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and password. The 
option will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. The users to login Easi / 
Easiest are requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi 
Tab and then use your existing my easi username & password. 
b. After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible companies where 
the evoting is in progress as per the information provided by the company. On clicking the evoting option, the 
user will be able to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider i.e. LINKINTIME for casting your vote 
during the remote e-Voting period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are 
also links provided to access the system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting 
service providers’ website directly. 
c. 
If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, the option to register is available at CDSL website www.cdslindia.com 
and click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option. 
d. Alternatively, the user can directly access the e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number and PAN No. 
from a e-Voting link available on  www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user by 
sending OTP on registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, 
the user will be able to see the e-Voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able to directly access 
the system of all e-Voting Service Providers. 
 
3. Individual Shareholders (holding securities in demat mode) login through their depository participants 
You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant registered with 
NSDL/CDSL for e-Voting facility.  After Successful login, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-
 
7 | P a g e  
 
Voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see 
e-Voting feature. Click on the company name or e-Voting service provider name i.e. LinkIntime and you will be redirected 
to e-Voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period. 
Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in physical form/ Non-Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode is given below: 
 
Individual Shareholders of the company, holding shares in physical form / Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode as on the cut-off date for e-voting may register for e-Voting facility of Link Intime as under: 
 
1. Open the internet browser and launch the URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in  
 
2. Click on “Sign Up” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab and register with your following details: -  
 
A. User ID:  
Shareholders holding shares in physical form shall provide Event No + Folio Number registered with the Company. 
Shareholders holding shares in NSDL demat account shall provide 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client 
ID; Shareholders holding shares in CDSL demat account shall provide 16 Digit Beneficiary ID.  
B. PAN: Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with the 
Depository Participant (DP)/ Company shall use the sequence number provided to you, if applicable.  
C. DOB/DOI: Enter the Date of Birth (DOB) / Date of Incorporation (DOI) (As recorded with your DP / Company - in 
DD/MM/YYYY format)  
D. Bank Account Number: Enter your Bank Account Number (last four digits), as recorded with your DP/Company.  
 
*Shareholders holding shares in physical form but have not recorded ‘C’ and ‘D’, shall provide their Folio number in ‘D’ 
above 
*Shareholders holding shares in NSDL form, shall provide ‘D’ above 
 
▶ Set the password of your choice (The password should contain minimum 8 characters, at least one special Character 
(@!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter).  
▶ Click “confirm” (Your password is now generated).  
 
3. Click on ‘Login’ under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab.  
4. Enter your User ID, Password and Image Verification (CAPTCHA) Code and click on ‘Submit’.  
 
Cast your vote electronically: 
 
1. After successful login, you will be able to see the notification for e-voting. Select ‘View’ icon.  
2. E-voting page will appear.  
3. Refer the Resolution description and cast your vote by selecting your desired option ‘Favour / Against’ (If you wish to 
view the entire Resolution details, click on the ‘View Resolution’ file link).  
4. After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour / Against, click on ‘Submit’. A confirmation box will be displayed. If you 
wish to confirm your vote, click on ‘Yes’, else to change your vote, click on ‘No’ and accordingly modify your vote.  
 
Guidelines for Institutional shareholders: 
 
Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians are required to log on the e-voting system 
of LIIPL at https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and register themselves as ‘Custodian / Mutual Fund / Corporate Body’. They are 
also required to upload a scanned certified true copy of the board resolution /authority letter/power of attorney etc. together with 
attested specimen signature of the duly authorised representative(s) in PDF format in the ‘Custodian / Mutual Fund / Corporate 
Body’ login for the Scrutinizer to verify the same.  
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in physical mode/ Institutional shareholders: 
 
Shareholders facing any technical issue in login may contact Link Intime INSTAVOTE helpdesk by sending a request at 
enotices@linkintime.co.in or contact on: - Tel: 022 – 4918 6000. 
 
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode: 
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode may contact the respective helpdesk for any technical issues related to 
login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL. 
 
8 | P a g e  
 
 
Login type  
Helpdesk details  
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with NSDL  
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a request 
at  evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at : 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000 
Individual Shareholders 
holding securities in 
demat mode with CDSL  
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending a request 
at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 22 55 33  
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in Physical mode has forgotten the password:  
 
If an Individual Shareholders holding securities in Physical mode has forgotten the USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both then 
the shareholder can use the “Forgot Password” option available on the e-Voting website of Link Intime: 
https://instavote.linkintime.co.in 
 
o 
Click on ‘Login’ under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab and further Click ‘forgot password?’  
o 
Enter User ID, select Mode and Enter Image Verification code (CAPTCHA). Click on “SUBMIT”. 
 
In case shareholders is having valid email address, Password will be sent to his / her registered e-mail address. Shareholders can 
set the password of his/her choice by providing the information about the particulars of the Security Question and Answer, PAN, 
DOB/DOI, Bank Account Number (last four digits) etc. as mentioned above. The password should contain minimum 8 characters, 
at least one special character (@!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter.  
 
User ID for Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form (i.e. Share Certificate): Your User ID is Event No + Folio Number 
registered with the Company 
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with NSDL/ CDSL has forgotten the password:  
 
Shareholders who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password option available 
at abovementioned depository/ depository participants website. 
 
 It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your password 
confidential.  
 For shareholders/ members holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for voting on the resolutions 
contained in this Notice. 
 During the voting period, shareholders/ members can login any number of time till they have voted on the resolution(s) for 
a particular “Event”. 
 
24. Process and manner for attending the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet: 
 
1. Open the internet browser and launch the URL: https://instameet.linkintime.co.in   
 
▶ Select the “Company” and ‘Event Date’ and register with your following details: -  
 
A. Demat Account No. or Folio No: Enter your 16 digit Demat Account No. or Folio No 
 
• Shareholders/ members holding shares in CDSL demat account shall provide 16 Digit Beneficiary ID 
• Shareholders/ members holding shares in NSDL demat account shall provide 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit 
Client ID 
• Shareholders/ members holding shares in physical form shall provide Folio Number registered with the Company  
 
B. PAN: Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Members who have not updated their PAN with the 
Depository Participant (DP)/ Company shall use the sequence number provided to you, if applicable.  
 
C. Mobile No.: Enter your mobile number.  
 
D. Email ID: Enter your email id, as recorded with your DP/Company.  
 
▶ Click “Go to Meeting” (You are now registered for InstaMeet and your attendance is marked for the meeting). 
 
 
9 | P a g e  
 
Please refer the following guidelines for the software requirements and kindly ensure to install the same on the device which would 
be used to attend the meeting. Please read the instructions carefully and participate in the meeting. You may also call upon the 
InstaMeet Support Desk for any support on the dedicated number provided to you in the instruction/ InstaMEET website. 
 
Guidelines to attend the AGM proceedings of Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd.: InstaMEET 
 
For a smooth experience of viewing the AGM proceedings of Link Intime India Pvt. Ltd. InstaMEET, shareholders/ members who 
are registered as speakers for the event are requested to download and install the Webex application in advance by following the 
instructions as under: 
 
a) Please download and install the Webex  application by clicking on the link https://www.webex.com/downloads.html/   
 
 
 
 
 
10 | P a g e  
 
 
 
 
or  
 
11 | P a g e  
 
 
b) If you do not want to download and install the Webex application, you may join the meeting by following the process 
mentioned as under:  
 
 
25. Instructions for Shareholders/ Members to Speak during the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet: 
 
a. 
Shareholders who would like to speak during the meeting must register their request 3 days in advance with the company on 
the specific email id created for the general meeting.  
b. Shareholders will get confirmation on first cum first basis depending upon the provision made by the client.  
c. 
Shareholders will receive “speaking serial number” once they mark attendance for the meeting. 
d. Other shareholder may ask questions to the panellist, via active chat-board during the meeting. 
e. 
Please remember speaking serial number and start your conversation with panellist by switching on video mode and audio of 
your device. 
 
Shareholders are requested to speak only when moderator of the meeting/ management will announce the name and serial number 
for speaking.  
 
26. Instructions for Shareholders/ Members to Vote during the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet: 
 
Once the electronic voting is activated by the scrutinizer/ moderator during the meeting, shareholders/ members who have not 
exercised their vote through the remote e-voting can cast the vote as under: 
  
a. 
On the Shareholders VC page, click on the link for e-Voting “Cast your vote” 
b. Enter your 16 digit Demat Account No. / Folio No. and OTP (received on the registered mobile number/ registered email Id) 
received during registration for InstaMEET and click on 'Submit'.  
c. 
After successful login, you will see “Resolution Description” and against the same the option “Favour/ Against” for voting.  
d. Cast your vote by selecting appropriate option i.e. “Favour/Against” as desired. Enter the number of shares (which represents 
no. of votes) as on the cut-off date under ‘Favour/Against'. 
e. 
After selecting the appropriate option i.e. Favour/Against as desired and you have decided to vote, click on “Save”. A 
confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, click on “Confirm”, else to change your vote, click on 
“Back” and accordingly modify your vote.  
f. 
Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify or change your vote subsequently. 
 
Note: Shareholders/ Members, who will be present in the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet facility and have not casted 
their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through 
e-Voting facility during the meeting. Shareholders/ Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting prior to the Annual General 
Meeting will be eligible to attend/ participate in the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet. However, they will not be eligible 
to vote again during the meeting.  
Step 1  
Enter your First Name, Last Name and Email ID and click on Join Now.  
    1 (A)  
If you have already installed the Webex application on your device, join the meeting by clicking on Join Now  
    1 (B)  
If Webex application is not installed, a new page will appear giving you an option to either Add Webex to chrome 
or Run a temporary application.  
Click on Run a temporary application, an exe file will be downloaded. Click on this exe file to run the application 
and join the meeting by clicking on Join Now  
 
12 | P a g e  
 
Shareholders/ Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through Tablets/ Laptops connected through broadband for better 
experience. 
Shareholders/ Members are required to use Internet with a good speed (preferably 2 MBPS download stream) to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting. 
Please note that Shareholders/ Members connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptops connecting via Mobile 
Hotspot may experience Audio/Visual loss due to fluctuation in their network.  It is therefore recommended to use stable Wi-FI or 
LAN connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches. 
 
In case shareholders/ members have any queries regarding login/ e-voting, they may send an email to instameet@linkintime.co.in 
or contact on: - Tel: 022-49186175. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 | P a g e  
 
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF COMPANIES ACT, 2013 IN RESPECT OF SPECIAL 
BUSINESSES PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, READ WITH REGULATION 36 
OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 
 
ITEM NO. 4: CONFIRMATION/ RATIFICATION OF REMUNERATION PAID TO MR. ROHTAS GOEL 
DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2022-23 
 
The Members of the Company at their 29th Annual General Meeting held on August 23, 2018, upon the recommendations of 
Board of Directors and Nomination & Remuneration Committee of the Company, had approved the remuneration to be paid 
to Mr. Rohtas Goel, Chairman, in the manner as specified in Annexure A to the Notice of this AGM. Accordingly, the 
Company has paid remuneration to Mr. Rohtas Goel, an Executive-Director & Chairman, for the FY 2022-23, who devoted 
his full time and efforts, as whole-time director of the Company, in Company’s day to day affairs, operations and management.  
However, in absence of the profits for FY 2022-23, the confirmation/ ratification to the payment of such remuneration, in 
terms of the provisions of Section 197(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, is required by way of a Special Resolution.  
 
The Members may note that Mr. Rohtas Goel has forwent his remuneration for the Financial Year 2020-21, however keeping 
in view the valuable contributions made by Mr. Rohtas Goel towards Company’s business & growth, his deep operational 
knowledge and rich and varied experience in real estate industry, his unique vision, planning, extensive execution & 
administration capabilities and the efforts made by him in the capacity of Executive-Director and Chairman, the Board, at the 
recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee, has approved to confirm/ratify the remuneration paid to Mr. 
Rohtas Goel, subject to the approval of Members, during the Financial Year 2022-23, aggregating to Rs. 4,80,00,000/- (Rupees 
Four Crore and Eighty Lakhs only) alongwith other allowances & perquisites, as per Company’s policy. The said remuneration 
was well within the limits as approved by the Members of the Company. 
 
Further, it is hereby informed that the Company has not committed any default in payment of dues to any bank or public 
financial institution or non-convertible debenture holders or any other secured creditor. 
 
Save and except, Mr. Rohtas Goel to whom the resolution relates along with his relatives, including Mr. Mohit Goel, Managing 
Director of the Company and their shareholdings in the Company, none of the other Directors/ Key Managerial Personnel of 
the Company or their relatives are in any way, financially or otherwise, concerned or interested in this Resolution. 
 
Board recommends the Resolution as set out at Item No. 4 for approval of Members as a Special Resolution. 
 
ITEM NO. 5 & 6:  
 
CHANGE IN DESIGNATION OF MR. ROHTAS GOEL (DIN: 00003735) FROM “CHAIRMAN & WHOLE-TIME 
DIRECTOR” TO “CHAIRMAN & NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR/ NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN” AND 
PAYMENT OF REMUNERATION  
 
PAYMENT OF REMUNERATION TO MR. ROHTAS GOEL (DIN: 00003735), CHAIRMAN & NON- EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR OF THE COMPANY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24, WHICH MAY EXCEED 50% OF THE 
TOTAL ANNUAL REMUNERATION PAYABLE TO ALL OTHER NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OF THE 
COMPANY 
 
The Members of the Company are hereby informed that Mr. Rohtas Goel, Chairman & Whole-Time Director of the Company 
had submitted a letter to relinquish his office of Executive Director of the Company with effect from closing of business hours 
of May 26, 2023 and consequent to the same he was re-designated as Chairman & Non-Executive Director/ Non-Executive 
Chairman of the Company with effect from May 27, 2023. 
 
The Board of Directors of the Company at its meeting held on May 26, 2023, at the recommendation of the Nomination & 
Remuneration Committee and considering the valuable contribution and guidance, which the Company will be requiring from 
time to time from Mr. Rohtas Goel, has recommended to re-designate Mr. Rohtas Goel (DIN: 00003735) as “Chairman & Non-
Executive Director / Non-Executive Chairman” of the Company, within the same limits of remuneration & tenure as approved by 
the shareholders of the Company at their 33rd Annual General Meeting held on September 28, 2022, as mentioned in the resolution 
set out at Item No. 5 to this Notice, in the capacity of Non-Executive Chairman, subject to the approval of Members of the 
Company and in accordance with the provisions contained in Section 197 read with Schedule V and all other applicable 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. 
 
14 | P a g e  
 
 
Further the proposed remuneration shall be paid to Mr. Rohtas Goel, within the limits as approved by the Members at this 
AGM, in case of absence/inadequacy of profits for a period of three consecutive years with effect from the 1st April, 2023 
with the authority to the Board of Directors to alter and vary the same terms and conditions of the said appointment including 
but not limited to designation and remuneration in such manner as may be decided by the Board from time to time at the 
recommendation of Nomination & Remuneration Committee.  
 
Mr. Rohtas Goel is the founder of Omaxe Group. He has nurtured it from a construction house to a highly renowned and respected 
Real Estate Brand. Omaxe has grown by leaps and bounds under his dynamic leadership. The Company aims to deliver the next 
phase of growth, aspirations and milestones with fusion of new anergy and experience, and is currently focusing on execution 
and completion of existing projects to meet delivery timelines, monetization of finished inventory, near-term liquidity & cash 
flows, a prudent capital structure and governance, and therefore keeping in view the experience Mr. Rohtas Goel and his 
proven skills, unique vision & execution capabilities, as may be required in the capacity of Non-executive Chairman, the 
Board of Directors of the Company recommends the resolution, as set out at Item no. 5 of this Notice. 
 
Further, pursuant to Regulation 17(6)(ca) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 every listed 
entity is required to obtain approval of Members of the Company by way of Special Resolution for payment of remuneration to 
single Non-Executive Director which is in excess of 50% of the total remuneration payable to all other Non-Executive Directors of 
the Company during a financial year. Since, the remuneration payable to Mr. Rohtas Goel for the Financial Year 2023-24 may 
exceed 50% of the total remuneration that may be payable to all other Non–Executive Directors of the Company, the Board 
recommends the Resolution set out at Item No. 6 of the Notice for approval of the members as Special Resolution. The details of 
proposed remuneration to be paid to Mr. Rohtas Goel in the capacity of Chairman & Non-Executive Director, for the Financial Year 
2023-24, is mentioned herein below: 
 
Tenure 
5 Years with effect from 01st April, 2023 to 31st March, 2028 
Gross Remuneration 
Up to Rs. 40,00,000/- (Rupees Forty Lakh Only) per month 
Perquisites and Allowances 
As may be deemed fit to the Board of Directors upon the recommendation of 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee of the Company in terms of the policy of the 
Company. 
 
Further, it is hereby informed that the Company has not committed any default in payment of dues to any bank or public 
financial institution or non-convertible debenture holders or any other secured creditor. 
 
The details/ disclosures pursuant to Section II of Part II of Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013, are annexed herewith as 
Annexure B to Notice of this AGM. 
 
Pursuant to the provisions of Secretarial Standard 2 (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) and 
Regulation 36(3) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended from time to 
time, the required details to be disclosed with respect to the above matter are appended in Annexure C to Notice of this AGM. 
 
Save and except, Mr. Rohtas Goel to whom these resolutions relate along with his relatives including Mr. Mohit Goel, 
Managing Director of the Company and their shareholdings in the Company, none of the Directors/ Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company/their relatives are in any way, financially or otherwise, concerned or interested in these Resolutions. 
 
The Board recommends the Resolution set out at Item No. 5 and Item No. 6 of the Notice for approval of the members as a 
Special Resolutions. 
 
ITEM NO. 7: TO APPROVE COMMISSION UPTO 1% OF THE NET PROFITS OF THE COMPANY TO THE 
DIRECTORS WHO ARE NOT IN THE WHOLE TIME EMPLOYMENT OF THE COMPANY 
 
The Members of the Company pursuant to the resolution passed at 29th Annual General Meeting, held on August 23, 2018 
approved the payment of commission upto 1% of the net profits of the Company in any financial year, to the Non-Executive 
Directors, who are not in the whole time employment of the Company for five years i.e. from 2018-19 to 2022-23. 
 
Further, since such approval of the Members has been expired, an enabling approval of Members is being sought for payment 
of commission upto 1% of the net profits of the Company in a financial year, as calculated under Section 198 of the Companies 
 
15 | P a g e  
 
Act, 2013 to the non-executive directors of the Company, who are not in the whole time employment of the Company, for a 
further period of five years, i.e., from financial year 2023-24 to 2027-28. 
 
In accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, remuneration by way of commission upto 1% of the net profits may be paid to the Directors 
other than the Managing Director & Whole-Time Directors subject to the approval of shareholders. 
 
As per the requirements of Secretarial Standard 2 (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, the details 
are appended in Annexure D to the Notice of this AGM in respect of the non-executive directors who are entitled for 
commission. 
 
All the Non-executive Directors of the Company including Mr. Rohtas Goel, Chairman & Non-Executive Director and their 
relatives including Mr. Mohit Goel, Managing Director are concerned or interested in passing of this resolution.  
 
None of the other Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives are in any way concerned or 
interested in the said Resolution. 
 
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution as set out at Item No.7 for approval of Members. 
 
ITEM NO. 8: REMUNERATION OF M/S S.K. BHATT & ASSOCIATES, COST ACCOUNTANTS, COST 
AUDITORS OF THE COMPANY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2023-24 
 
The Board, at the recommendation of the Audit Committee, has approved the appointment of M/s S.K. Bhatt & Associates, 
Cost Accountants (FRN: 000312S) as the Cost Auditors to conduct the audit of the Cost Records of the Company for the FY 
2023-24 at a remuneration of upto Rs. 2,00,000/- plus out of pocket expenses and applicable taxes. In accordance with the 
provisions of Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Cost Record and Audit) Rules, 2014, the 
remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors has to be confirmed and ratified by the Members of the Company. Accordingly, 
consent of the Members is required for confirmation and ratification of the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditors for the 
financial year 2023-24 by passing a resolution as set out at Item No. 8 of this Notice. 
 
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Company and their relatives are in any way, concerned or interested, 
financially or otherwise, in this transaction. 
 
The Board recommends the Resolution as set out at Item No. 8 for approval of Members to be passed as an Ordinary 
Resolution. 
 
 
 
16 | P a g e  
 
 
Annexure A to Notice of AGM 
 
TERMS & CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT OF MR. ROHTAS GOEL AS APPROVED BY THE MEMBERS OF 
THE COMPANY AT THEIR 29th ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  
 
Tenure of Appointment 
5 years w.e.f. 1st April 2018 to 31st March, 2023 
Basic Salary* 
Up to Rs. 40,00,000/- (Rupees Forty Lakh Only) per month 
*Basic Salary and/or Annual increment shall be paid as the Board may deem fit, at such 
quantum, periodicity and intervals, at the discretion of the Board and subject to overall 
limits as prescribed, from time to time, under the Companies Act, 2013 and rules made 
there under. 
Commission 
Upto 2% of the Net Profit of the Company 
Housing 
House Rent Allowance may be provided by the Company as per Company Policies or the 
Company may provide fully furnished accommodation along with its upkeep and maintenance 
including payment towards electricity, water, security, servant(s), gardening etc. at the 
discretion of the Board from time to time. 
Perquisites 
a. Car: Two Chauffeur driven cars for official and limited personal use. All expenses on 
running and maintenance of the cars on actual basis to be borne by the Company. 
b. Telephone (Including Mobile Phone): Charges for rental, local and official long 
distance calls for telephone at residence and mobile phone will be reimbursed by the 
Company. 
c. Club Fees: Fee(s) of club(s) including annual charges and other fee(s) or any other charges 
for availing such facilities for official purpose, subject to maximum of two clubs. 
d. Education: Actual Expenses of education subject to maximum of one month basic salary 
on annual basis, payable as per the request of Mr. Rohtas Goel. 
e. Personal Medical: Reimbursement of all medical expenses/premium amounts of any 
Mediclaim Policy etc. for self and family as per the rules of the Company. 
f. Insurance: Reimbursement of actual expenses including the premium amount for self and 
family as per the rules of the Company for life, personal and accidental insurance. 
g. Annual Leave: Mr. Rohtas Goel would be entitled for annual leaves as per the rules of 
the Company. Encashment of leave at the end of the tenure will not be included in the 
computation of the ceiling. 
h. Leave Travel Assistance: For self and family subject to a ceiling of one month's salary 
per year. 
i. Contributions: to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund or Annuity Fund as per the 
Rules of the Company, to the extent these are not taxable under the Income Tax Act, 
1961, either singly or put together. Gratuity payable shall not exceed half a month's 
salary for each completed year of services in accordance with Payment of Gratuity 
Act, 1972. 
 
 
 
 
17 | P a g e  
 
 
Annexure B to Notice of AGM 
 
The other disclosures as required under Section II of Part II of Schedule V of the Companies Act, 2013 is provided hereunder: 
 
I. 
GENERAL INFORMATION: 
 
1. Nature of Industry: Real Estate 
 
2. Date of Commencement of Production or Expected Date: N.A 
 
3. In case of new companies, expected date of commencement of activities as per project approved by financial institutions 
appearing in prospectus: N.A 
 
4. Financial Performance based on given indicators: Financial performance of the Company in preceding three financial years 
are hereunder: 
(Rupees in Crores) 
Financial Parameters 
Financial Year 
2020-21 
2021-22 
2022-23 
Total Revenue 
284.05 
422.18 
471.57 
Depreciation 
57.28 
38.95 
55.66 
Total Expenses (Excluding Depreciation) 
506.87 
471.40 
665.58 
Net Profit/(Loss) 
(210.21) 
(76.29) 
(193.19) 
Paid Up Equity Capital 
182.90 
182.90 
182.90 
Reserve & Surplus 
1098.91 
1025.04 
831.50 
Earnings Per Share 
(11.49) 
(4.17) 
(10.56) 
 
5. Foreign Collaborations and Investments etc.: There is no direct foreign investment in the Company except to the extent 
shares held. There is no foreign collaboration in the Company. 
 
II. INFORMATION ABOUT APPOINTEE: 
 
PARTICULARS 
MR. ROHTAS GOEL 
Background details, job profile 
and its suitability 
Mr. Rohtas Goel is the founder of Omaxe Group. He has nurtured it from a construction 
house to a highly renowned and respected Real Estate Brand. Omaxe has grown by leaps 
and bounds under his dynamic leadership. Mr. Goel is a civil engineer who started his 
professional career with a private construction firm, but later undertook his own 
entrepreneurial journey.  
Past remuneration 
Upto Rs. 40,00,000/- per month 
Recognition or awards 
Mr. Goel has won several awards and accolades, been invited to national and 
international conferences, has had two terms as President of National Real Estate 
Development Council (NAREDCO) and has emerged as a prominent voice of the real 
estate industry. 
Remuneration proposed 
Upto Rs. 40,00,000/- per month 
Comparative 
remuneration 
profile  with respect to industry, 
size of the company, profile of 
the position and person (in case 
of expatriates the relevant details 
would be with respect to the 
country of his origin) 
The proposed remuneration is comparable with the remuneration drawn by peers and is 
necessitated. 
 
18 | P a g e  
 
Pecuniary relationship directly 
or indirectly with the company, 
or 
relationship 
with 
the 
managerial personnel 
Mr. Rohtas Goel is father of Mr. Mohit Goel, Managing Director of the Company. 
 
III. OTHER INFORMATION: 
 
Reason of loss or inadequate 
profits 
The reason, inter-alia, includes increased cost due to delay in projects and compensation 
paid/to be paid to customers for such delay. All the components contribute to increase in 
cost resulting into losses at present but as soon as the pace of work at project sites speed 
up & delivery is given, these losses will be curtailed in future. 
 
The Company is currently focusing on execution and completion of existing projects to 
meet delivery timelines, monetization of finished inventory, near-term liquidity & cash 
flows, a prudent capital structure and governance. 
Steps taken or proposed to be 
taken for improvement 
Expected 
increase 
in 
productivity and profits in 
measurable terms 
 
IV. DISCLOSURES: 
 
PARTICULARS 
MR. ROHTAS GOEL 
All elements of remuneration 
package such as salary, benefits, 
bonuses, stock options, pension, 
etc., of all the directors 
As per terms & conditions of appointment mentioned in the resolution under Item No. 5 
read with statement pursuant to Section 102 of Companies Act, 2013. 
Details of fixed component. and 
performance linked incentives 
along with the performance 
criteria 
As per terms & conditions of appointment mentioned in the resolution under Item No. 5 
read with statement pursuant to Section 102 of Companies Act, 2013. 
Service 
contracts, 
notice 
period, severance fees 
As per terms & conditions of appointment mentioned in the resolution under Item No. 5 
read with statement pursuant to Section 102 of Companies Act, 2013. 
Stock option details, if any, and 
whether the same has  been  
issued at a discount as well as the 
period over which accrued and 
over which exercisable 
NIL 
 
 
 
 
 
19 | P a g e  
 
 
Annexure C to Notice of AGM 
 
Details of Directors seeking Appointment/ Re-appointment/ change in designation in pursuance of Regulation 36(3) of 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as 
amended and Secretarial Standard-2 on General Meetings: 
Name of Director 
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
 
Director 
Identification 
Number (DIN) 
00003735 
Date of Birth & Age 
Date of Birth: May 19, 1962 
Age: 61 Years  
Date of First/Original 
Appointment 
March 08, 1989 
Qualification(s) 
Diploma in Civil Engineering  
Number of Shares held in 
the Company 
12,14,000 Equity Shares of Rs. 10/- each 
Brief 
Profile/Resume/ 
Nature 
of 
expertise 
in 
specific functional areas 
Mr. Rohtas Goel is the founder of Omaxe Group. He has nurtured it from a construction house to 
a highly renowned and respected Real Estate Brand. Omaxe has grown by leaps and bounds under 
his dynamic leadership. Mr. Goel is a civil engineer who started his professional career with a 
private construction firm, but later undertook his own entrepreneurial journey. Mr. Goel has won 
several awards and accolades, been invited to national and international conferences, has had two 
terms as President of National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) and has emerged 
as a prominent voice of the real estate industry. 
Other listed entities in 
which 
he 
holds 
the 
directorship 
and 
the 
membership of Committees 
of the board along with 
listed entities from which 
the person has resigned in 
the past three years 
NIL 
Directorship held in other 
companies 
Directorship in the following Companies: 
1. Omaxe Limited 
2. Magppie Living Private Limited 
3. Examo 
Estate 
Management 
Private 
Limited 
4. VSG Builders Private Limited 
5. NJS Developers Private Limited 
6. Next10 Redevelopment Private Limited 
7. Affordable India Housing Finance Ltd. 
8. Next10 Land Developers Private Limited 
9. Next10 Buildtech Private Limited 
10. Next10 Realbuild Private Limited 
11. Hansa Properties Private Limited 
12. Buildwell Builders Private Limited 
13. B D Agarwal Securities Private Limited 
Committee Positions in other 
Companies 
Not Applicable 
Number 
of 
Board 
meetings attended during 
FY 2022-23 
4 out of 4 
Terms and Conditions of 
Appointment/ 
Re-
appointment  
As set out in Item No. 5 & 6 read with statement pursuant to Section 102 of Companies Act, 2013 
Details 
of 
proposed 
remuneration 
from 
the 
Company 
 As approved by the Members of the Company. 
Last Remuneration drawn 
from the Company 
Upto Rs. 40,00,000/- per month 
Relationships 
between 
Directors inter-se and other 
Key Managerial Personnel 
of the Company 
Mr. Rohtas Goel is father of Mr. Mohit Goel, Managing Director of the Company. 
 
20 | P a g e  
 
Annexure D to Notice of AGM 
 
Details in respect of the Non-Executive Directors who are entitled for commission pursuant to Secretarial Standard-2 
on General Meetings: 
 
Name of 
Director 
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
Mr. Gurnam Singh Mr. Shridhar Rao 
Ms. Nishal Jain 
Mr. Aroon Kumar 
Aggarwal 
DIN 
00003735 
08357396 
08600252 
06934656 
00828759 
Age 
61 Years 
68 Years 
47 Years 
39 Years 
44 Years 
Qualification 
Diploma in Civil 
Engineering  
Bachelor of Arts 
(Honours with 
English) and Masters 
in English Literature 
MSAAD, Columbia 
University M.Arch, 
M.S. University, 
Baroda, India 
PGDM - Human 
Resource 
Management  
B.B.A- Marketing 
MBA from Apeejay 
Institute 
of 
Management 
(in 
collaboration with 
Thames 
Valley 
University, 
London), Delhi and 
have 
done 
an 
executive program 
in marketing and 
finance from IIM, 
Lucknow. 
Experience 
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
has over 37 Years 
of Rich Experience 
in the Real Estate 
Industry. He is the 
founder of Omaxe 
Group. 
He 
has 
nurtured it from a 
construction house 
to 
a 
highly 
renowned 
and 
respected 
Real 
Estate 
Brand. 
Omaxe has grown 
by leaps and bounds 
under his dynamic 
leadership. 
Mr. 
Goel 
is 
a 
civil 
engineer 
who 
started 
his 
professional career 
with 
a 
private 
construction 
firm, 
but later undertook 
his 
own 
entrepreneurial 
journey. Mr. Goel 
has 
won 
several 
awards 
and 
accolades, 
been 
invited to national 
and 
international 
conferences, 
has 
had two terms as 
President 
of 
National 
Real 
Estate 
Development 
Council 
(NAREDCO) and 
has emerged as a 
He possesses rich 
banking experience 
of over 35 Years in 
State Bank Group. 
He 
superannuated 
as General Manager 
(Commercial/ 
Corporate Banking) 
on 31st March 2015. 
He was an Observer 
/Nominee 
appointed by State 
Bank 
Group 
for 
Monnet 
Ispat 
& 
Energy 
Ltd. 
To 
oversee the working 
of the company on 
behalf 
of 
the 
Consortium 
of 
Banks from April, 
2016 to May, 2017. 
 
He was also an 
advisor to Centre 
for 
Science 
and 
Environment (CSE) 
from August, 2015 
to June, 2016. 
He has over 19 years 
of experience in the 
field of architecture. 
During his tenure at 
Gehry Partners, he 
has worked on many 
noteworthy projects. 
Prior to this he has 
also worked on many 
commercial projects 
such as Al Babtain 
Tower, Kuwait, The 
sail Residency, 
Singapore, Vatika 
Town Square in 
Manesar, India. Mr. 
Rao is visiting 
faculty of Sushant 
School of Art and 
Architecture, 
Gurugram, India. 
She possesses 16 
years 
of 
rich 
experience 
in 
Recruitment, 
Manpower 
Planning, 
Compensation 
Planning, 
Appraisals, 
Employee 
Engagement 
& 
related 
HR 
activities. 
Also, 
associated 
as 
Independent 
Director 
with 
Kamdhenu Group, 
the 
largest 
manufacturer 
of 
international 
quality Steel Barsin 
India is the first 
company to get the 
prestigious 
ISO 
9001:2000 
certifications. 
He has over 20 
years of experience 
in 
business 
development, talent 
acquisition & client 
acquisition, 
P&L 
management, 
delivery of mandates 
& 
client 
relationships across 
the 
world 
in 
diversified Industries 
including 
manufacturing, 
FMCG, 
consumer 
durable, retail, real 
estate, 
hospitality, 
IT, pharma etc. His 
appointment 
will 
help in achieving 
greater standards of 
Good 
Corporate 
Governance and will 
bring 
more 
independence in the 
Board of Directors. 
 
21 | P a g e  
 
prominent voice of 
the 
real 
estate 
industry. 
Details of 
Remuneration 
As set out in Item 
No. 5 & 6 read with 
statement pursuant 
to Section 102 of 
Companies 
Act, 
2013 
Remuneration by way of sitting fee for attending the meetings of the Board and 
Committees thereof, re-imbursement of expenses for participating in the Board and other 
Committee meetings and profit related commission within the limits under Section 197 
of the Companies Act, 2013, as payable to other Non-Executive Directors in terms of 
the “Policy on Appointment and Remuneration of Director(s), KMP(s) And SMP(s)”, 
as approved by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee or the Board or 
Shareholders, from time to time. 
Remuneration 
last drawn 
Upto 
Rs. 
40,00,000/- 
per 
month 
Sitting fee of Rs.60,000/- each per Board Meeting, Rs. 40,000/- 
each per Audit Committee Meeting and Rs. 25,000/- each per 
other Committee Meeting(s) thereof including conveyance 
charges 
Not 
Applicable, 
since he was not on 
the 
Board 
of 
Directors during the 
said period. 
Date of First 
Appointment on 
the Board 
March 08, 1989, re-
designated 
as 
Chairman & Non-
Executive Director 
with effect from 
May 27, 2023 
February 12, 2019 
November 04, 2019 November 04, 2019 May 27, 2023 
Shareholding in 
the Company 
12,14,000 
Equity 
Shares of Rs. 10/- 
each 
NIL 
NIL 
NIL 
17,374 
Equity 
Shares of Rs. 10/- 
each 
Relationship 
with other 
Directors, 
Manager or 
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel of 
the Company 
Mr. Rohtas Goel is 
father of Mr. Mohit 
Goel, 
Managing 
Director 
of 
the 
Company. 
Not Related 
Not Related 
Not Related 
Not Related 
Number of 
Meetings of 
Board of 
Directors 
attended 
during FY 
2022-23 
4 out of 4 
4 out of 4 
4 out of 4 
4 out of 4 
Not 
Applicable, 
since he was not on 
the 
Board 
of 
Directors during the 
said period. 
Other 
Directorships, 
Membership/ 
Chairmanship 
of Committees 
of other Boards 
Directorship in the 
following 
Companies: 
1. Omaxe Limited 
2. Magppie Living 
Private Limited 
3. Examo 
Estate 
Management 
Private Limited 
4. VSG 
Builders 
Private Limited 
5. NJS Developers 
Private Limited 
6. Next10 
Redevelopment 
Private Limited 
7. Affordable India 
Housing Finance 
Limited 
8. Next10 
Land 
Developers 
Directorship in the 
following 
Companies: 
1. Omaxe Limited 
 
Directorship in the 
following 
Companies: 
1. Omaxe Limited 
2. Greenbanana 
Environment 
Solutions Private 
Limited 
Directorship/ 
Designated 
Partnership in the 
following 
Companies/LLPs: 
1. Omaxe Limited 
2. Kamdhenu 
Ventures 
Limited 
3. Kamdhenu 
Colour 
and 
Coatings 
Limited 
4. H and N Styles 
LLP 
 
Directorship/ 
Designated 
Partnership in the 
following 
Companies/LLPs: 
1. Omaxe Limited 
2. Equal 
Apple 
Consulting LLP 
 
 
22 | P a g e  
 
Private Limited 
9. Next10 
Buildtech 
Private Limited 
10. Next10 
Realbuild 
Private Limited 
11. Hansa Properties 
Private Limited 
12. Buildwell 
Builders Private 
Limited 
13. B D Agarwal 
Securities 
Private Limited 
 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 1 
OMAXE LIMITED   I   Annual Report 2022-23
Building Tomorrow.
Touching Horizons.
Infusing New Energy.
Omaxe World Street, Faridabad
Actual Picture
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
 1 
Across the Pages
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Corporate Information 	
2
Building Tomorrow. Touching Horizons. Infusing New Energy.	
3
From Chairman’s Desk	
4
About Omaxe	
6
Touching New Horizons Expanding Footprints	
9
Building Tomorrow with Newer Avenues	
10
Infusing New Energy Building Tomorrow	
14
Project Highlights 	
16
Financial Highlights 	
20
Awards & Accolades	
22
Building Tomorrow, Inclusively 	
23
Management Discussion and Analysis 	
24
MANAGEMENT REPORTS
Board’s Report 	
36
Business Responsibility and Sustainablity Report	
66
Corporate Governance Report 	
108
CEO / CFO Certificate 	
131
Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance 	
132
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Standalone Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report 	
135
Standalone Balance Sheet 	
148
Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss 	
150
Standalone  Statement of Changes in Equity 	
151
Standalone Cash Flow Statement 	
152
Significant Accounting Policies 	
154
Notes to the Financial Statements 	
165
Consolidated Financial Statements
Independent Auditors’ Report 	
245
Consolidated Balance Sheet 	
260
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss 	
262
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 	
263
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 	
264
Significant Accounting Policies 	
266
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 	
277
Disclosure Pursuant to Section 129(3) CA, 2013 	
337
2 
Omaxe Limited
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
Mr. Gurnam Singh, Chairperson
Ms. Nishal Jain, Member
Mr. Shridhar Rao, Member
Mr. Vinit Goyal, Member
Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee
Mr. Gurnam Singh, Chairperson
Mr. Rohtas Goel, Member
Ms. Nishal Jain, Member
Mr. Shridhar Rao, Member
Corporate Social Responsibility 
Committee
Ms. Nishal Jain, Chairperson
Mr. Shridhar Rao, Member
Mr. Vinit Goyal, Member
Investor Grievances Cum
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
Mr. Gurnam Singh, Chairperson
Mr. Shridhar Rao, Member
Mr. Vinit Goyal, Member
Risk Management Committee
Mr. Gurnam Singh, Chairperson
Mr. Shridhar Rao, Member
Mr. Atul Banshal, Member
Mr. Vinit Goyal, Member
STATUTORY AUDITORS
M/s. BSD & Co. 
Chartered Accountants,
810, 8th Floor, Antriksh Bhawan,
22, Kasturba Gandhi Marg, 
New Delhi-110001
INTERNAL AUDITORS
M/s Doogar & Associates, 
Chartered Accountants
13, Community Center
East of Kailash, 
New Delhi-110065
COST AUDITORS
M/s S.K. Bhatt & Associates, 
Cost Accountants
83 B, Pocket 4,
Mayur Vihar Phase-1 
New Delhi-110091
SECRETARIAL AUDITORS
M/s DMK Associates
Company Secretaries
31/36, Old Rajinder Nagar,
New Delhi – 110060
REGISTRAR & SHARE TRANSFER AGENT
M/s Link Intime India 
Private Limited
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, 
NH-2 C-1 Block LSC,
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, 
New Delhi-110058
BANKERS/FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
State Bank of India
Punjab National Bank
IDBI Bank Limited
Indian Bank
PNB Housing Finance Ltd.
Yes Bank
J&K Bank Ltd.
Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited
Venus India Asset Finance Pvt. Ltd.
Credit Solutions India Trust
SWAMIH Investment Fund I
Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd.
REGISTERED OFFICE
19-B First Floor
Omaxe Celebration Mall,
Sohna Road, Gurugram
Haryana - 122001
CORPORATE OFFICE
Omaxe House,
7, Local Shopping Centre, 
Kalkaji, New Delhi-110019
Corporate Information
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Mr. Rohtas Goel
Chairman & Non-Executive Director
Mr. Mohit Goel
Managing Director
Mr. Vinit Goyal
Whole Time Director
Mr. Gurnam Singh
Non-Executive & Independent 
Director
Ms. Nishal Jain
Non-Executive &
Woman Independent Director
Mr. Shridhar Rao
Non-Executive & Independent 
Director
Mr. Aroon Kumar Aggarwal
Non-Executive Independent Director
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Mr. Atul Banshal
Director - Finance
Mr. Manoj Kumar Dua
Chief Financial Officer
Mr. Vikas Khandelwal
Company Secretary & Compliance 
Officer
Royal Signature, Ludhiana 
Perspective View
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 3 
At Omaxe, we are not just 
building properties, we are 
building tomorrow. We are 
constantly innovating and 
reinventing ourselves to 
meet the changing needs and 
aspirations of our customers 
and stakeholders. We are 
touching the horizon with 
our vision of creating world-
class living and business 
spaces that transform the 
landscape of India. We are 
infusing new vigour into our 
projects with our passion, 
commitment, and excellence. 
We invite you to join us in 
our journey and experience a 
new burst of energy while we 
reshape the future.  
Building Tomorrow. 
Touching Horizons. 
Infusing New Energy.
Dear Stakeholders,
“We are links in a chain, 
each generation forging the next.”
 - Richard Eyre 
The world economy has been facing turmoil with a 
tough monetary climate and the overhang of a hot 
geopolitical climate due to the Russo-Ukrainian war. 
This is resulting in a slowdown of economic growth 
across most countries and India is not an exception. 
However, when some of the major economies are 
staring at recessionary trends, India is set to be the 
fastest-growing major economy in the world. It is today 
a silver lining in the dark economic clouds hanging over 
the world. When the world economy is expected to shed 
almost one-fourth of its growth rate, i.e., projected 
growth of 2.8% in 2023 as compared to 3.6% in 2022, 
India will grow at a high intensity of 6.5% in FY2023-24 
only 10% lower GDP growth rate than the previous 
year growth rate of 7.2%. With the rising confidence in 
India’s future as seen in many surveys and economic 
parameters, the country is experiencing the effects of a 
self-fulfilling prophecy. It is seeing growth in demand, 
greater fixed asset creation in the public and private 
sectors, and a higher share in global capital flows. 
Passing the baton of shining today  
to a brighter tomorrow
From Chairman’s Desk
The outlook for your 
Company is cautiously 
positive in the coming 
year, but confidently 
encouraging in the 
medium and long term.
4 
Omaxe Limited
The economic growth has been broad-based with most 
industries and sectors seeing good expansion in the last 
two financial years. This trend is expected to continue 
in the new financial year. The Real Estate sector is no 
different. After the sledgehammer of the COVID-19 
pandemic demolished the sales for the sector during 
FY2020-21 and had a milder but continued bad impact 
in FY2021-22, FY2022-23 was the first year when it did 
not have any direct impact on the sales. This combined 
with the booming economy had the Real Estate sector 
seeing record sales and new launches. The situation 
was broadly similar across all segments and all 
geographical markets of the sector. Only a few pockets/ 
micro markets in the country saw a change that was 
much lower than the segment average. Investors, 
including institutional, and financing were more readily 
available to the sector. Although the cost of funds did 
rise due to the rate increases by the Reserve Bank. 
Among these positive macro developments, Omaxe not 
only managed to grow its sales by more than 25% from 
`618 crores to `773 crores but also expanded its reach 
from 28 cities to 29 cities during the reported financial 
year. However, continued inflation in the cost of raw 
materials, manpower and energy along with high debt 
servicing meant the Company suffered a higher loss 
during FY2022-23 than the previous year. Since the 
Company had robust cash flow, it was able to sustain 
its growth as well as reduce  its debt. Going forward, it 
is going to be our top priority to maintain the debt on 
reasonable level, at all times. 
We will also pursue newer growth opportunities in 
PPP projects such as the Omaxe Chowk project that 
was built in partnership with the North Delhi Municipal 
Corporation. 
The outlook for your Company is cautiously positive 
in the coming year, but confidently encouraging in 
the medium and long term under the able leadership 
of my sons Mohit and Jatin, who have now taken over 
the mantle, as Managing Director and Group Director-
Operations. While I will continue as the Chairman in 
a non-executive role, this transition is a step in the 
right direction for the Company and an opportunity to 
reinvent it without compromising its values and core 
strengths. 
Over the last 35+ years, we have built Omaxe as a leading 
player in the Real Estate sector with clarity of purpose 
and commitment to our values. Along this journey, 
the Company has celebrated many achievements, 
seen several momentous occasions, and even faced 
formidable challenges, but our philosophy and passion 
for positively impacting the lives of our customers have 
remained steadfast. And this is the primary reason for 
us scaling increasingly taller peaks of performance 
after a humble beginning as a construction contractor. 
These achievements of Omaxe are not to any 
individual’s credit but belong to all the employees – 
current and past, vendors and partners, banks and 
financial institutions, and most importantly the belief 
of our customers and shareholders. Through these 
efforts we have made life comfortable for thousands of 
families who have built their nests in our residential and 
township projects, for business owners and workers 
who are pursuing their dreams in our commercial and 
office projects, and for people celebrating life in our 
malls, truly embodying our motto of “Turning Dreams 
into Reality”. This is the legacy and foundation that the 
next generation at Omaxe will build upon to deliver the 
next phase of growth, aspirations and milestones, and 
most importantly, be the enablers of success for our 
customers and stakeholders. I wish them and Omaxe 
all the best and a bright future.
Best Regards,
Rohtas Goel
Omaxe not only managed to 
grow its sales by more than 
25% from `618 crores to  
`773 crores but also expanded 
its reach from 28 cities to 29 
cities during the reported 
financial year. 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 5 
Beacon Street, Omaxe New Chandigarh 
Perspective View
6 
Omaxe Limited
About Omaxe
Omaxe has truly created a legacy of excellence, scale, 
diversity, speed and commitment on the Indian Real 
Estate landscape. A legacy that has lived some of the 
industry’s biggest transformative changes, a legacy 
that stands tall with some impressive numbers.
Omaxe is India’s leading real estate company having a 
Strong Foundation, Taller Tomorrow
diverse portfolio of projects spanning across Integrated 
and High-Tech Townships, Group Housing, SCOs, 
Shopping malls, and Hotels. The recent focus of the 
Company on PPP (Public-Private-Partnership) model 
based projects which has started bearing fruits as 
evident from the Omaxe Chowk in the heart of Delhi – 
Chandni Chowk. 
35 
Years
132 
Mn. Sq. Ft.
8 
States
29 
Cities
Vision
Our dream is to create 
an institution that people 
look up to. As true 
professionals, we are 
committed to the growth 
of India.
Mission
We strive to build time-
honored relationships 
with our customers and 
stakeholders by creating 
world-class living spaces 
for them.
Corporate Overview
Annual Report 2022-23 
 7 
Management Reports
financial statements
`898  
Crores Networth
At Omaxe, we do not just build spaces, we create new 
cities, new hotspots of progress and growth.  Omaxe 
has been one of the pioneering players in India to take 
big city quality, amenities, and scale to tier II & III cities 
and towns of the country. Right from New Chandigarh 
to Indore to Lucknow, Omaxe takes pride in taking 
some of the best living experiences along.
Headquartered at Delhi, Omaxe has an imposing 
presence across 29 cities in 8 states of the country. 
Some of these locations’ prominent real estate 
landmarks are delivered by Omaxe. A few of the gems 
delivered by us include World Street-Faridabad, Forest 
Spa-Faridabad and Noida, Omaxe Royal Residency- 
Ludhiana, Omaxe New Chandigarh, Omaxe Residency 
I and II- Lucknow, Waterscapes-Lucknow, Omaxe City 
- Indore.
1 New City, 
4 New Projects 
during FY 2022-23
As Omaxe takes its strong legacy 
ahead towards newer glory, Omaxe 
is changing. Changing for better by 
expanding its project footprints beyond 
the cities of its existing presence and 
beyond the existing project pipeline. Our 
aim is to take ‘the Omaxe experience’ to 
more and more people and grow along 
with the cities and towns we contribute 
in developing.
Omaxe City - Ratlam, Madhya Pradesh
Omaxe City was our foray into the 
new city of Ratlam with a plotting 
system. Equipped with state- of- the- 
art amenities, we initiated the project 
by offering customizable plot sizes 
ranging from 600 to 2000 sq. ft.
India Trade Tower, New Chandigarh
Actual Picture
8 
Omaxe Limited
During FY2022-23, we added the 29th city in our portfolio with residential 
project in Ratlam in the heart of India in M.P. During FY2022-23, we brought the 
following new projects to the cities where we already had significant presence:
Touching New Horizons 
Expanding Footprints, Extending  
‘The Omaxe Experience’
Gardenia Boutique Homes 
New Chandigarh. Category-Residential
Omaxe Royal Signature
Ludhiana,Category - Residential
The Resort 
Lucknow. Category-Residential
Barcelona Street
Faridabad. Category-Commercial
In line with our mission to deliver world-class living 
to our customers, we are increasing the ambit of 
geographies we serve, farther and deeper. 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 9 
Building Tomorrow 
With newer avenues
10 
Omaxe Limited
As a progressive 
organization, it is imperative 
for us to keep expanding 
our horizon in terms of 
the avenues of growth and 
sustainability. 
We, at Omaxe, have been working steadily to invent, 
experiment and develop newer avenues of revenue 
generation. The objective of this strategy is also 
to diversify our revenue streams, product-mix and 
consumer offerings. This diversification delivers 
sustainability, hedge against a particular segment’s 
cyclicality, sectoral dynamics as well as macro 
influences. 
While we are progressing with implementing this 
strategy, we are already witnessing the initial success 
and a solid foundation building scale for tomorrow.
infrastructure, has done wonders for the business 
community in this centuries old charm of shopping 
and business. Omaxe Chowk stands tall with 
3,83,000 Sq.Ft. of leasable / saleable developed 
area, with 2280 car parking slots, dedicated freight 
handling area for the businesses besides bringing 
best of shopping experience and best of the brands 
to the heart of Delhi.
	
Alongside Omaxe Chowk, Omaxe will focus future 
developments under PPP model in Dwarka, Sector 
19, Delhi.  
A glimpse of these paradigm shifts in securing future 
growth avenues;
1.	 Public-Private-Partnership 
(PPP) 
Projects: 
Omaxe, with its rich experience and impeccable 
capabilities started venturing in the immensely 
potential segment of PPP projects. The PPP 
projects are jointly developed along with the 
governments and government bodies. 
	
Omaxe Chowk in Chandni Chowk, Delhi is the 
recent runaway success for Omaxe. Omaxe Chowk, 
with the local government’s vision for a better 
Omaxe Chowk, Delhi
Actual Picture
Omaxe Aananda, Prayagraj,
Actual Picture
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 11 
The PPP projects are a true catalyst in bringing 
development in otherwise challenging or 
unserved locations. The PPP projects provide 
the exchequer with the cutting edge capability 
of developers like us and for developers the 
possibilities become immense with negligible 
land related hassles besides working on much 
higher scale of operations. For the customers, 
this becomes a blessing, the strengths of 
governments and private developers coming 
together.
12 
Omaxe Limited
2.	 Innovating product offerings: The world and its 
realities are changing fast. From full-fledged 
physical offices to virtual offices or co-working 
offices, from large anchor showrooms or stores 
to mini showrooms & stores, from competing to 
collaborating; we see disruptions all across and at 
a fast pace. 
	
As a futuristic organization, we have been keeping 
a close watch on all latest trends. We have been 
innovating and experimenting with our product 
offerings and product-mix.  
	
Reimagining Built up area with massive balconies: 
Royal Signature, Ludhiana reimagined built up area 
of flats by providing massive balconies with sizes 
of approx 500 sq. ft. It was our unique effort in 
providing one of a kind living spaces to the citizens 
of Ludhiana. 
3.	 Collaboration for better future, better tomorrow: 
As the world is getting increasingly disrupting and 
collaborative, it is important to tap into opportunities 
for collaboration that enhance mutual value for 
businesses. 
	
Partnership 
with 
JIO-BP 
for 
EV 
Charging 
infrastructure: At Omaxe, we made a big 
collaboration for better future when we partnered 
with Jio-bp to set up Electric Vehicle (EV) charging 
& swapping infrastructure. Jio-bp will set up 
EV charging and swapping stations at various 
Omaxe properties across 12 cities under the said 
agreement. With this collaboration, Omaxe will be 
contributing small bit to the electric vehicles wave 
and indirectly contribute to the greener world. 
This will also aid the Omaxe customers in these 
locations with ease and proximity of charging their 
Electric Vehicles.
The Resort, Lucknow,
Perspective View
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 13 
DELHI
 PUNJAB
 UTTAR PRADESH  |  HARYANA
MADHYA PRADESH | RAJASTHAN  |  HIMACHAL PRADESH  |  UTTARAKHAND
  | 
  | 
Growing Presence
A National Pride!
8 States and 29 Cities
New Chandigarh
Ludhiana | Patiala
Derabassi | Amritsar
Bathinda | Rajpura
Faridabad | Gurugram
Palwal | Sonepat
Rohtak | Bahadurgarh
Yamuna Nagar
Lucknow | Prayagraj
Noida| Greater Noida
Vrindavan | Agra
Ghaziabad
Jaipur | Bhiwadi
Baddi
Rudrapur
Indore | Ujjain
Ratlam
Infusing New Energy 
Building tomorrow
14 
Omaxe Limited
Change is law of nature, change is essential for 
progress and development. As the time changes, 
it is imperative for people, and of course for the 
organizations, to change with changing times, rising 
challenges, unveiling opportunities and catapulting 
to the next level of their respective journey. It is the 
change which unfolds the new- new possibilities, new 
opportunities and new energy.
At Omaxe, currently we are witnessing change in the 
Top Management. Our illustrious leader, mentor and 
guardian Mr. Rohtas Goel, stepped down from Executive 
Director to Non-Executive Chairman. He has been the 
founding Chairman and has led the Company to be a 
formidable, respectable and sustainably strong player 
in Indian real estate. He passed on the baton to two 
impeccably capable future leaders – Mr. Mohit Goel – 
Managing Director and Mr. Jatin Goel – Group Director- 
Operations. 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 15 
While our two new leaders have been contributing 
to the Company’s success and transformative 
strategies for almost a decade  working under 
leadership and guidance of Mr. Rohtas Goel, it is the 
time for this new energy to lead from the helm.
Omaxe has seen the transformative impact of the 
new leadership’s contribution in form of acquiring 
new avenues of revenue, breakthrough collaborations 
and innovating product offerings. Omaxe is confident 
of scaling new heights, exploring new horizons with 
infusion of this new energy with our beloved Chairman 
Mr. Rohtas Goel guiding us.
The Lake, New Chandigarh,
Actual Picture
Project Highlights – FY23
16 
Omaxe Limited
As a leading real estate player, we are presenting the 
report card on Projects. 
At the end of FY 2022-23, since inception, Omaxe had 
approximately delivered 132 Mn. Sq. Ft. (12.26 Mn. 
Sq. Mtr.) of developed area across various project 
categories. This development  was delivered under 
various segments ranging from Integrated Townships 
development, Group Housing projects, Commercial 
developments, Hospitality (Hotels) projects and under 
our initial construction projects business.:
• 
During FY2022-23, Omaxe delivered 2.75 Mn. 
Sq. Ft of developed area. Which are further 
bifurcated as under:Residential / Plotted 
Development – 2.35 Mn. Sq. Ft.
• 
Commercial Development – 0.40 Mn. Sq. Ft.
Omaxe City, Ratlam,
Actual Picture
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 17 
During FY23, Omaxe had special focus on diversifying its 
geographic presence, innovating with product offerings 
and delivering on commitments. During FY2022-23, 
Omaxe had special focus on New Chandigarh, Prayagraj 
and Luknow-Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Faridabad- Haryana 
and  Ratlam-Madhya Pradesh
India Trade Center, Greater Noida
Actual Picture
18 
Omaxe Limited
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 19 
Omaxe Chowk, Delhi, Actual Picture
Omaxe Hi-Street, Lucknow, Perspective View
The Royal Meridian, Ludhiana, Perspective View
World Plaza, Omaxe New Chandigarh, Perspective View
Projects in focus during  FY2022-23:
1.	 Omaxe New Chandigarh: 
a.	 Gardenia – Residential
2.	 Prayagraj
a.	 Ananda - Residential
3.	 Delhi
a.	 Omaxe Chowk
4.	 Ratlam
a.	 Omaxe City, Ratlam
5.	 Ludhiana
a.	 Royal Signature
6.	 Lucknow
a.	 The Palace
b.	 The Resort
7.	 Faridabad
a.	 Barcelona Street
Going forward, the cities under our focus 
shall be; 
• 
Delhi NCR
• 
Chandigarh
• 
Ludhiana
• 
Lucknow
• 
Vrindavan
• 
Indore, Ratlam
Today’s Numbers 
Tomorrow’s Foundation
Beacon Street, Omaxe New Chandigarh 
Perspective View
20 
Omaxe Limited
FY 2022-23 has been happening year for Omaxe. As Omaxe is taking big leaps towards future with 
new energy, the Company registered decent growth in its numbers. 
Let us take you through some of the key financial developments and performance on key parameters.
(` Crores)
PARTICULARS
FY23
FY22
FY21
Total Revenues 
798
638
515
Net Worth 
898
1245
1405
Market Capitalization 
909
1467
1232
Annual Report 2022-23 
 21 
Management Reports
financial statements
`440 Crores 
Omaxe raised funds through debentures, 
to the tune of `440 Crores Through private 
offer to Varde Partners. The said fundraise 
will aid the next phase of growth and delivery 
across, locations and projects.
`30 Crores
Omaxe raised Funds through debentures 
to the tune of `30 Crores through Private 
Placement offer to SWAMIH Investment 
Fund I. The said fundraise will use towards 
completion of residential project named 
“Omaxe The Resort – A & B”.
`32.40 Crores
Invested 
`32.40 
Crore 
in 
subsidiary 
company namely M/s Omaxe World Street 
Private Limited as 3,24,00,000 Unsecured 
Compulsorily Convertible Debentures of 
`10/- each. Thereby financially strengthening 
the high performing project and ensuring 
better stakeholder returns.
25% 
Revenue from Operations grew by 25% from 
`618 Cr. in FY22 to `773 Cr. in FY23
Total Revenues (` Crores)
Net Worth (` Crores)
Market Capitalization (` Crores)
Corporate Overview
1405
638
1245
1232
1467
909
898
Celestia Royal, New Chandigarh 
Actual Picture
22 
Omaxe Limited
Business Partner 
Award
Partner in Progress
Omaxe Ltd.
Dainik Bhaskar 
Eminence Awards
The Best Township 
Award
Omaxe City 1, Indore
Realty + Idea Indian 
Digital Excellence 
Awards
Best Search and SCO 
Strategy of the Year
Omaxe Ltd.
Best Brands 
Conclave
Best Brand
Omaxe Ltd.
Awards & Accolades
The Lake, New Chandigarh,
Actual Picture
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 23 
Building Tomorrow, Inclusively.
Omaxe Ltd. (“the Company”) recognizes that its 
business activities have wide impact on the societies 
in which it operates, and therefore an effective practice 
is required giving due consideration to the interests of 
its stakeholders including shareholders, customers, 
employees, 
suppliers, 
business 
partners, 
local 
communities and other organizations. The Company 
endeavors to make CSR a key business process for 
sustainable development. The Company is responsible 
to continuously enhance shareholders wealth; it is 
also committed to its other stakeholders to conduct 
its business in an accountable manner that creates a 
sustained positive impact on society and to practice its 
corporate values through its commitment to grow in 
a socially and environmentally responsible way, while 
meeting the interests of its stakeholders. The company 
is vigilant in its enforcement towards corporate 
principles and is committed towards sustainable 
development and inclusive growth. The Company 
constantly strives to ensure strong corporate culture 
which emphasizes on integrating CSR values with 
business objective. It also pursues initiatives related 
to quality management, environment preservation and 
social awareness.
Education
Sustainability
Protection of National 
Heritage, Art and Culture 
Skill Development
Social & Health 
Development
As a focused approach, our key intervention areas in CSR include:
During FY2022-23, the major social activities included:
1.	 Mass wedding- Under the aegis of Omaxe 
Foundation, we organized a mass wedding on 
4th of November 2022 for 11 couples from under 
privileged segments of the society.
2.	 Under Omaxe Foundation, we extended primary 
education to the children of blue collar workers 
working at projects in Omaxe World; Lucknow, 
Omaxe City; New Chandigarh, and World Street; 
Faridabad.
Management 
Discussion and 
Analysis
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 25 
Global economy
The global economy is expected to grow by 2.8% in 2023, 
down from 3.6% in 2022. This slowdown is being driven by 
a number of factors, including the ongoing war in Ukraine, 
rising inflation, and tighter monetary policies across major 
economies. The war in Ukraine has had a significant impact 
on the global economy, disrupting trade and energy markets 
and causing commodity prices to surge. Rising inflation is 
also a major concern, as it is eroding household purchasing 
power and squeezing corporate profits. In response to 
inflation, central banks around the world are raising interest 
rates, which is expected to weigh on economic growth. This 
slowdown will be more pronounced in advanced economies, 
where growth is forecast to fall to 1.3% from 2.7% in 2022. 
Emerging Market and Developing Economies (EMDE) are 
expected to grow by 3.9% in 2023, down from 4.8% in 2022. 
Some positive signs in the global economy are strong labour 
markets in many countries and growing corporate profits. 
Inflation is also expected to reduce, albeit slowly, as central 
banks use all the tools in their arsenal to manage inflation 
including interest rate hikes. 
The global economy grew by 3.6% in 2022, down from 6.1% 
in 2021. This slowdown was driven by a number of factors, 
including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the war in 
Ukraine, and rising inflation. The Ukraine conflict has in IMF 
estimates shaved 0.8% off global growth in 2022. Inflation in 
Advanced Economies was at its highest level in decades, and 
also rose in EMDEs. Global inflation touched 8.7% in 2022 
and was expected to slowly decline to 7% in 2023 and 4.9% 
in 2024. 
The IMF’s GDP growth figures and projections for the major 
countries and economic groupings for the year 2022 and 2023 
are captured in the table below. 
Economy/ Grouping
2022 GDP 
Growth (A)
2023 GDP 
Growth (P)
Advanced Economies
2.7%
1.3%
United States
2.1%
1.6%
Euro Area
3.5%
0.8%
Japan
1.1%
1.3%
United Kingdom
4.0%
-0.3%
EMDE
4.0%
3.9%
China
3.0%
5.2%
ASEAN-5
5.5%
4.5%
Russia
-2.1%
0.7%
Brazil
2.9%
0.9%
Mexico
3.1%
1.8%
South Africa
2.0%
0.1%
[Source: International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) World Economic 
Outlook report of April 2023. Link: https://www.imf.org/en/
Publications/WEO/Issues/2023/04/11/world-economic-
outlook-april-2023]
Management Discussion and Analysis
Celestia Grand Premier, Ludhiana
Perspective View
26 
Omaxe Limited
Indian Economy
In FY23, India witnessed robust economic growth against the 
backdrop of a global slowdown. Its GDP expanded by 7.2% 
as compared to the previous year, which was lesser than 
the 9.1% YOY growth in FY22. This growth was primarily 
driven by the services and consumption sectors, propelling 
India to become one of the world’s fastest-expanding major 
economies. India’s Nominal GDP at current prices reached 
`272.41 lakh crore, a growth of 16.1% over the previous year 
resulting in the per capita income rising to `1,96,983.
While the manufacturing, mining, and construction sectors 
experienced varying levels of growth slowdowns compared 
to FY22, sectors such as Agriculture and Financial, Real 
Estate, and Professional Services (FREPS) exhibited positive 
growth momentum. The FREPS sector, in particular, saw a 
remarkable increase in growth, with a rate of 7.1% in FY23 
compared to 4.7% in FY22. [Source: Ministry of Statistics & 
Programme Implementation (MOSPI) release of May 31, 2023. 
Link: 
https://www.mospi.gov.in/sites/default/files/press_
release/PressNoteQ4_FY2022-23_31may23.pdf]
Fiscal indicators remained favourable, with the fiscal deficit 
for FY23 meeting the government’s target at 6.4%. [Source: 
https://www.cnbctv18.com/economy/india-fiscal-deficit-
fy2023-at-6-4-percent-of-gdp-govt-meets-target-16818011.
htm] Additionally, inflation averaged 6.7% in FY23, with rural 
inflation surpassing urban inflation for the first time in six 
years. [Source: https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/
economy/indicators/rural-inflation-higher-in-fy23-heres-
the-data/articleshow/99540354.cms] The current account 
deficit rose to 2% from 1.2% in FY22, largely due to surging 
commodity prices. However, the country managed to narrow 
down the deficit to 0.2% in the final quarter of FY23. [Source: 
https://www.livemint.com/news/india/indias-current-
account-deficit-narrows-sharply-to-1-3-billion-in-q4fy23-
as-trade-deficit-moderates-11687864523723.html]
In FY24, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) projects a GDP 
growth rate of 6.5%, again making India the fastest-growing 
major economy. The forecast is based on positive factors 
such as moderation of inflation that will result in a slower 
pace of rate hikes, the rebounding demand, and an improved 
outlook concerning the El Nino effect, which is anticipated to 
be less damaging. Despite potential upside risks from food 
and commodity prices, RBI expects inflation to moderate 
to 5.1% in FY24, within its target range of 4% - 6%. [Source: 
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/economy/
policy/monetary-policy-rbi-cuts-inflation-projection-for-
fy24-to-5-1-from-5-2/articleshow/100837895.cms] 
Real Estate Sector
India’s Real Estate sector is a dynamic part of the country’s 
economy, 
contributing 
significantly 
to 
GDP 
growth, 
employment generation, and infrastructure development. It 
encompasses residential, commercial, retail, and industrial 
segments, catering to the diverse needs of a growing 
population. In 2023, the Real Estate industry in India was 
estimated to touch USD 265.18 billion in size and grow at a 
CAGR of 25.6% for the next five years to reach USD 828.75 
billion by 2028. [Source: https://www.mordorintelligence.
com/industry-reports/real-estate-industry-in-india] 
Over the years, the sector has witnessed both periods of 
rapid growth and challenges. The sector experienced a boom 
in the early 2000s, driven by factors such as urbanization, 
rising disposable incomes, and easier access to home 
loans. However, the sector then faced several issues and 
hurdles due to regulatory and legal complexities, lack of 
transparency, delayed project deliveries, and some instances 
of fraudulent practices affected the sector’s credibility. The 
introduction of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) 
Act, 2016 (RERA) brought about significant reforms to address 
these challenges faced by the sector. However, economic 
slowdown, liquidity crunches and pandemic continued to 
have an overhang on the market dynamics. As the economy 
rebounded with effects of the pandemic waning, the sector 
rebounded and is now growing at a fast momentum.
The Palace, Lucknow
Perspective View
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 27 
The industry can be divided into Residential, Office, Retail, 
and Industrial & Logistics etc.) segments.
Residential 
Annual Residential Segment Performance 
[Source: Multiple reports from CBRE. Link: https://www.cbre.
com/insights#market-reports] 
Period
CY 
2021
CY 
2022
YOY 
Trend
Q1 CY 
2022
Q1 CY 
2023
YOY 
Trend
Launches (‘000 
Units)
200
300
60
81
Sales (‘000 Units)
200
295
70
78
Share of Sales By Category
Category
Q1 CY 2022
Q1 CY 2023
Affordable/ Budget
27%
19%
Mid-end
41%
49%
High-end
23%
18%
Premium
5%
9%
Luxury
4%
5%
Residential is the most important segment of the Real Estate 
sector and it has been driven by the acceleration in the need 
for homeownership and security during the post-pandemic 
period. Coupled with the depreciating rupee, wealth creation 
and increasing capital values, the segment is also attracting 
investors, including HNIs and NRIs, in addition to the end-
users and first-time buyers. 
Among the top 7 cities, Pune had the highest share in sales in 
2022 followed by Mumbai, whereas Mumbai and Hyderabad 
were the top 2 in terms of new launches in 2022. In the first 
quarter of 2023, Mumbai topped both the parameters with 
Pune following in the second place. After two years affected 
by COVID, Tier-II and Tier-III cities have arisen as a fresh 
major real estate trend in 2022.
Office 
Annual Office Segment Performance 
[Source: Multiple reports from CBRE. Link: https://www.cbre.
com/insights#market-reports] 
Period
CY 
2021
CY 
2022
YOY 
Trend
Q1 CY 
2022
Q1 CY 
2023
YOY 
Trend
Absorption 
(million 
square feet)
41
56.6
11.4
12.6
New supply (million 
square feet)
50
50.6
9.4
11.6
Share of Absorption By Industry
Industry
Q1 CY 
2022
Q1 CY 
2023
Banking, Financial Services & Insurance
17%
22%
Co-working
13%
22%
Technology
34%
20%
Engineering & Manufacturing
12%
11%
Research, Consulting & Analytics
11%
10%
Life Sciences
2%
4%
Infrastructure, Real Estate & Logistics
3%
3%
Omaxe Chowk, Delhi
Actual Picture
28 
Omaxe Limited
The Office segment has completely emerged out of the dark 
shadows of economic slump and Work From Home trend that 
was brought about by the pandemic. In 2022 and Q1 of 2023, 
the absorption has been higher than new supply addition, 
hence resulting in lowering of cumulative vacancy rate in the 
investment grade properties in the top seven cities of India. 
The global slowdown and funding crunch for the startups has 
affected the absorption by Technology vertical but boosted 
the flexible space or co-working operator segment. 
In 2022, Bangalore led the top seven cities in terms of 
absorption of investment grade office space supply with a 
30.4% share, whereas Hyderabad saw the highest addition 
of new supply with a 27.3% share. The cities in the 2nd place 
were Delhi-NCR and Bangalore respectively. The trend 
in Q1 2023 was slightly different with Bangalore topping 
both parameters and followed by Delhi-NCR in the second 
position. In a few micro-markets of selected cities, the 
rentals witnessed a recovery because of sustained leasing 
activity and demand for investment-grade properties. 
Retail
Annual Retail Segment Performance 
[Source: Multiple reports from CBRE. Link: https://www.cbre.
com/insights#market-reports] 
Period
CY 
2021
CY 
2022
YOY 
Trend
Q1 CY 
2022
Q1 CY 
2023
YOY 
Trend
Absorption (million 
square feet)
3.2
4.7
0.5
1.5
New supply (million 
square feet)
4.1
1.4
0.6
1.1
Share of Absorption By Category
Category
Q1 CY 2022 Q1 CY 2023
Fashion & Apparel
41%
31%
Homeware & Department Stores
6%
19%
Food & Beverages
7%
11%
Luxury
-
8%
Consumer Electronics
14%
5%
Supermarkets
11%
-
The consumers returned with a bang to the retail stores in 
2022, which led to a massive growth in absorption of available 
retail space, especially in new Grade A malls, as players 
scrambled to rebuild presence to tap the consumption 
spurt. Domestic retailers continued their comeback and 
increased their share in absorption of retail supply vis-à-vis 
international retailers in 2022. Their share in retail space 
absorption increased from 66% in 2020 to 71% in 2021 and 
79% in 2022. The decline in supply during 2022 was on 
account of only four malls becoming operational during the 
year. There are, however, several projects set for completion 
in 2023 and the supply scenario is likely to improve. 
Bangalore and Delhi-NCR contributed ~62% of the absorption 
of Retail supply in Grade-A malls. On the other hand, new 
supply became available only in Bangalore and Pune. In the 
first quarter of 2023, nearly three-fourths of the supply was 
added in Ahmedabad, which also led in absorption. Delhi-
NCR was the second largest across both parameters. 
Omaxe World Street, Faridabad
Actual Picture
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 29 
Industrial & Logistics
Annual Industrial & Logistics Segment Performance 
[Source: Multiple reports from CBRE. Link: https://www.cbre.com/insights#market-reports] 
Period
CY 2021
CY 2022
YOY Trend
Q1 CY 2022
Q1 CY 2023
YOY Trend
Absorption (million square feet)
30
31.6
6.5
8
New supply (million square feet)
27
20.9
5.8
7.6
Share of Absorption By Category
Category
Q1 CY 2022
Q1 CY 2023
3rd Party Logistics
32%
43%
E-commerce
14%
15%
Retail
21%
11%
Engineering & Manufacturing
15%
11%
Auto & Ancillary
7%
8%
The Royal Meridian, Ludhiana
Actual Picture
The Industrial & Logistics segment has started gaining 
prominence and is set to grow in importance in India 
because of overall economic growth, Government’s push for 
manufacturing, infrastructure, and investments, increasing 
e-commerce adoption and companies opting for multipolarity 
in supply chains. The segment is dominated by demand 
from 3rd Party Logistics, Engineering & Manufacturing and 
E-commerce players. 
In 2022, Delhi-NCR and Mumbai were the major markets in 
terms of absorption, while the new supply was the highest 
in Mumbai and Chennai. The segment saw Delhi-NCR and 
Hyderabad topping the absorption charts and Chennai and 
Kolkata delivering the highest new supply in Q1 2023. 
30 
Omaxe Limited
Business Operations
Omaxe has a successful track record of delivering 132 million 
square feet of construction projects up to 31st March 2023. 
This includes 132 million square feet of their own real estate 
developments and from construction contracting services. 
During the fiscal year 2022-23, Omaxe completed the 
delivery of  2.75  million square feet.These deliveries 
encompassed projects located in various cities such as 
Chandigarh, Lucknow, Faridabad, Ludhiana, and Vrindavan. 
During FY 23, Omaxe grew its sales by more than 25% 
from 618 crores to 773 crores and also expanded its reach 
from 28 cities to 29 cities.
New Launches during FY23
The new launches were strategically located in prominent 
cities such as Faridabad, New Chandigarh, Lucknow, 
Ratlam and Ludhiana. The group’s net worth as of the end of 
FY23 stood at `898 crores.
Financial Performance
 (` in crores)
Particulars
FY22
FY23
Total income from operations
637.94
798.01
EBITDA
-26.71
-278.60
Profit before tax
-194.34
-456.77
Profit after tax 
-161.61
-351.08
Total Income: The total income of the Company on a 
consolidated basis which was `637.94 crores in the previous 
financial year went up by 25.1% to touch `798.01 crores in 
FY23.
EBIDTA: The EBIDTA performance worsened due to higher 
material costs, resulting in a FY22 EBITDA loss of `26.71 
crores ballooning to an EBITDA loss of `278.60 crores in FY23.
Profit before tax: Consequently, the Company also made a 
loss at the Profit before tax level of `456.77 crores for the 
FY23 as against a `194.34 crores PBT loss in FY 22. 
Profit after tax: Net loss for the year was `351.08 crores in 
FY23 compared to a loss of `161.61 crores during FY22. 
Key Changes in Financial Ratios
The reasons that have impacted and led to a significant 
movement in financial ratios have been stated below for the 
information of the shareholders.
Parameter
FY22
FY23
Change
Explanation
Debtor Turnover
1.60
2.01
25.63% There is 
increase in 
Revenue
Inventory 
Turnover
0.06
0.09
50.00% Due to 
increase in 
cose of sales 
in current year
Interest 
Coverage Ratio
0.48
-0.02
-104.17% Due to 
increase in 
loss
Current Ratio
1.10
1.07
-2.73
Debt Equity 
Ratio
1.11
1.64
47.75% Due to 
increase in 
loss
EBITDA margin 
%
-4.19% -34.91%
-30.72% Due to 
increase in 
Cost of Sale
Net Profit 
Margin %
-25.33 -43.99%
-18.66%
Return on Net 
Worth %
-12.98% -39.09%
-26.11% Due to 
increase in 
loss
Key Strategies
Omaxe’s mantra has been to remain consistent in pursuing 
adopted strategies through the years with only a minor 
level of fine tuning in line with the market trends. The key 
strategies adopted by the Company are outlined below.
Strategic Land Acquisitions: Strategic land acquisitions play 
a pivotal role in the success of a real estate company, and 
Omaxe has demonstrated its expertise in this domain. By 
leveraging its forward-thinking approach, the Company has 
consistently identified and procured land parcels in emerging 
growth locations ahead of the competition. Omaxe’s visionary 
outlook led it to recognize the potential in Tier-II and Tier-
III cities, as well as unfancied micro-markets within larger 
cities, positioning itself advantageously. This early entry 
into promising areas has bestowed the Company with a 
cost advantage, allowing it to offer competitive prices or 
command a premium based on superior locations. To ensure 
optimal capital allocation, Omaxe follows a prudent “stop-
loss” principle by divesting non-strategic land parcels that 
would otherwise strain its financials. 
Emphasis on Tier-II and Tier-III Cities: With the Tier-II and 
Tier-III cities growing faster economically than the Tier-I 
cities, the aspirations and demand for quality went up in these 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 31 
centres. Omaxe has been at the forefront of tapping this trend 
with its pedigree and brand. Furthermore, by combining its 
strategic land holdings with its brand value, offering the 
quality and aspirations associated with Tier-I cities in smaller 
urban centres, it has tasted success in the Tier-II and Tier-III 
markets. This strategic approach enhances Omaxe’s ability 
to command premium pricing for its projects. 
Diversified Product Mix: Recognizing the evolving needs of 
customers and the dynamic nature of the real estate market, 
Omaxe has implemented a strategic approach of maintaining 
a diversified product mix. This strategy not only allows the 
Company to cater to varied customer segments but also 
provides a broader platform for generating sustained growth. 
Moreover, by having a diverse range of offerings, Omaxe 
can effectively navigate through potential demand slumps 
in specific segments by redirecting focus to others that are 
experiencing higher demand. Omaxe continually studies and 
analyses the changing customer requirements, enabling it to 
adapt its product mix.
Focus on Customers and Quality Delivery: Omaxe has 
an unwavering commitment to customer satisfaction and 
delivering superior quality. These have been the foundation 
of its success and brand value. Omaxe ensures that all 
stakeholders within its ecosystem share this customer-
centric approach. Omaxe not only adheres to the customer-
friendly provisions of RERA but also proactively implements 
practices that prioritize customer needs even before they 
are mandated. By upholding the highest standards of 
construction quality, meeting committed delivery timelines, 
and complying with industry regulations, Omaxe has gained 
the trust and loyalty of its customers. Omaxe’s dedication to 
customer satisfaction extends beyond the sale itself, as it 
has established a robust grievance redressal mechanism to 
promptly address any concerns that may arise post-sale. By 
upholding its principles of ‘Customer First,’ ‘Commitments 
Fulfilled,’ and ‘Superior Quality Always,’ Omaxe ensures 
a superlative purchase experience, long-term customer 
satisfaction, and sustainable growth in the real estate sector.
Opportunities
Each segment within the Real Estate sector offers multiple 
opportunities for the Company to potentially tap. Some of the 
major ones are as follows:
Residential: 
The urban housing shortage is currently estimated to be at 
~19 million units and is likely to grow to 38 million homes 
by 2030 because of an increase of urban population by ~500 
million up to 2050. 
The 
Indian 
government 
has 
announced 
an 
Urban 
Infrastructure Development Fund in the Budget 2023 for 
development of Tier-II and Tier-III cities. As these markets 
have also witnessed a significant expansion in demand, Tier-I 
players are venturing outside their home turfs into Tier-
II cities. However, to overcome local challenges, they may 
adopt a model of Joint Venture/ Joint Development. 
The Premium and Luxury category homes are likely to grow 
the fastest in the medium term. In addition to the quality of 
the property and pricing, attractive designs and presence of 
good physical and social infrastructure will drive the buyer’s 
behaviour for these categories. 
Office:
To enable the Return-To-Office strategies of occupiers, the 
developers will have to focus on accessibility, proximity to 
public transport, adequate parking facilities, and creating 
soft infrastructure within the office facilities for better 
engagement and purpose flexibility. A combination of these 
aspects with a better ESG score can be definite winning 
formula for a Real Estate player in the short to medium term.
Retail:
Retailers are looking beyond the Grade-A malls to diversify 
their location mix. They are focusing on mini retail micro-
markets such small retail centres or metro stations or along 
expressways/ highways that house only a handful of brands. 
This is a big trend for F&B brands and is likely to catch on for 
other categories as well. 
Industrial & Logistics:
The government is targeting to increase share of 
manufacturing sector in Inda’s GDP to 25% by 2025 from 
17% in 2022. It has announced individual industry-specific 
Production Linked Incentive (PLI) schemes to attract global 
companies to set-up manufacturing presence across 14 
industries. As of December 2022, 650 applications for setting 
up manufacturing units were approved under this scheme. 
32 
Omaxe Limited
The impact of the PLI scheme is likely to magnify going 
forward and create a demand for Industrial & Logistics real 
estate catering to the needs of manufacturers under this 
scheme. 
Threats, Risks, and Concerns
The Company and the Indian Real Estate sector in general 
face a range of threats, risks, and concerns that require 
careful consideration. 
While the inflation has moderated in the recent past and the 
projected rate is likely to be within the comfort range of the 
Reserve Bank of India, any adverse movement could increase 
the chance of further interest rate hikes by the central bank. 
Thus, dampening the demand and escalating the cost of 
capital. Commodity inflation is another concern, as it drives 
up raw material costs and hampers sector profitability. 
More than anticipated impact of the global economic 
slowdown on India’s economic growth, can impact real estate 
demand. Capital availability remains a challenge, despite 
improvement, with the cost of funds possibly remaining high 
for the sector. While the Banks and Non-Banking Financial 
Companies have recovered and are doing extremely well, 
their approach to Real Estate lending remains cautious, 
driven by their experience of high non-performing assets 
from the Real Estate sector. 
Internal Control Systems
The Company has established a robust Internal Control 
System to safeguard its operations. A dedicated team of 
professionally trained internal auditors conducts regular 
audits to ensure strict adherence to policies and procedures, 
while preventing any instances of fraud, misappropriation, 
or unauthorized activities. The Company remains proactive 
in updating these policies and procedures in accordance 
with revised regulatory norms, ensuring their adequacy in 
the ever-changing business environment. The implemented 
systems and controls also guarantee accurate and timely 
reporting of all financial transactions and projects. The 
Company maintains a high level of compliance with company 
law, listing requirements, and other relevant regulations. 
To further enhance the effectiveness of the internal control 
framework, external auditors are engaged for both statutory 
and internal audits. Additionally, the audit committee of 
Europia Villa, Ludhiana
Perspective View
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 33 
the Board provides oversight, creating a comprehensive 
system of checks and balances to promote transparency and 
accountability throughout the organization.
Human Resources
At the heart of the Company’s operations, Omaxe recognizes 
that its human capital is its most valuable asset. As such, 
significant investments are made in fostering a work 
environment that cultivates the growth and development 
of a motivated and capable workforce. By maintaining a 
strong focus on the availability of skilled employees, Omaxe 
ensures the continued delivery of projects in a timely and 
cost effective manner. Omaxe places great importance on 
continuous training initiatives to enhance the skills and 
capabilities of its employees. To inspire and motivate its 
workforce, the Company implements a comprehensive 
range of rewards and recognition programs, coupled with a 
responsive performance management system and a robust 
grievance redressal process. By aligning its management 
practices with the objective of nurturing and empowering 
its employees, Omaxe strives to create a harmonious work 
environment that enables the achievement of its business 
goals while providing an exceptional customer experience.
As of 31st March 2023, the Team Omaxe had 473 full-time 
employees contributing to its success.
Corporate Social Responsibility
Recognizing its role as a responsible corporate citizen, Omaxe 
remains committed to fulfilling its social responsibilities 
through a diverse range of initiatives. The Company firmly 
supports causes that contribute to the overall well-being 
of society and actively encourages its employees to actively 
participate in these endeavours, fostering a collective sense 
of pride in making a positive impact. Omaxe conducts its 
Corporate Social Responsibility activities directly or in 
collaboration with the “Omaxe Foundation,” a not-for-
profit organization dedicated to driving positive change. The 
Company’s focus areas encompass sustainability, education, 
skill development, gender parity, and social and health 
development. In the pursuit of these objectives, Omaxe 
has undertaken various programs, including the National 
Employment through Apprentice Programme (NETAP), 
which addresses current challenges in apprenticeships 
by providing unemployed youth with on-the-job training 
opportunities and practical skills. Additionally, the Company 
is dedicated to environmental conservation, preventive 
healthcare, rural development, and supporting the education 
and skill development of construction workers and the girl 
child. Omaxe’s steadfast commitment to corporate social 
responsibility demonstrates its deep-rooted belief in creating 
a sustainable and inclusive future for all.
Outlook
The Indian Real Estate sector’s outlook for the year 2023 
and near future is upbeat with strong demand from both 
Residential and Commercial segments driving healthy 
growth. The Residential sector is likely to continue to be the 
key growth driver, with the key factors driving the demand 
being rising incomes, increasing urbanization with high 
growth of Tier-II and Tier-III cities especially, and a growing 
population. The commercial sector is also expected to 
perform well, with demand being driven by factors such as 
the economy’s expansion, growth of the IT-BPM and BFSI 
sectors, expansion of the manufacturing sector, continued 
growth of e-commerce and co-working spaces, and the 
acceleration of Return-To-Office mandates.
Key trends and highlights related to the outlook for the Indian 
Real Estate sector in 2023 are:
• 
In CBRE’s India Live-Work-Shop 2022 survey, the Indian 
consumers who were planning to relocate showed the 
highest preference to buy homes than rent as compared 
to other countries. Nearly 72% indicated they intend to buy 
a home. This includes the Millennials, who were dubbed 
as ‘Generation Rent’, with ~70% indicating a preference 
to buy instead of rent. Hence, housing demand is likely to 
sustain even amidst the impact of monetary tightening 
and economic slowdown.
• 
Mid-end residential segment that constituted the 
maximum in terms of sales and new launches in 2022 
is expected to drive the momentum going forward. 
With the withdrawal of affordable housing incentives 
by the Government, this segment is likely to witness 
some rationalization. In terms of % growth, the luxury 
and premium segments are likely to grow the fastest, 
however, given their smaller contribution their overall 
impact on residential growth will be overshadowed by 
the mid-end and high-end segments.
• 
Aggregate office-based employment across top six Indian 
34 
Omaxe Limited
cities is projected to grow by 5 – 7% in 2023, however, 
India’s status as an attractive source of high calibre and 
cost-effective talent will result in continued expansion of 
demand for leasing of Office space. For e.g., more than 
500 Global Capability Centres are likely to be set-up by 
2026, i.e., addition of a third of the total GCCs already 
set-up till end of 2022.
• 
Leasing in investment-grade buildings from leading 
and institutional developers/ owners was 40 – 45% of 
the overall activity in 2022. This share will continue to 
remain at 30%+ levels going forward because of factors 
such as IT-BPM and BFSI sectors continuing to be the 
main growth drivers and focus on complying with ESG 
regulations that prescribe ambitious net-zero targets. 
• 
CBRE’s India Live-Work-Shop survey showed that 91% 
Employers prefer their employees to work from office 
for 3 or more days in a week. Hence, Return-To-Office 
mandates will drive increase in occupancy rates in 
offices, while the longer term trend of offering hybrid 
working as a retention strategy would continue. Select 
Tier-II markets will see companies setting up offices to 
be closer to their talent pool.
• 
With the consumer demand including on discretionary 
spending expected to remain robust in 2023 despite 
impeding slowdown, the Retail segment is likely to see 
increased activity in terms of supply addition and leasing. 
Combined with the consumer preference for shopping 
in-store across various product categories, the outlook 
for near future is secure for the segment.
• 
Construction costs including material, energy and labour 
are expected to ease in 2023 whereas robust demand 
will create room for price/ rental growth in key markets. 
Hence, companies that can benefit from these trends will 
see reasonable increase in profitability. 
Overall, the Indian real estate sector is expected to grow 
at a healthy pace in 2023 and players that will align their 
operations in line with the above trends are likely to benefit 
the most. 
World Street, Faridaba
Actual Picture
Management 
Reports
36 
Omaxe Limited
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
During the year under review, in view of the losses, the Board 
of Directors of your Company has decided not to transfer any 
amount to the General Reserves.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS OPERATIONS
Omaxe has a successful track record of delivering 132 
million square feet of construction projects up to 31st March 
2023. This includes 132 million square feet of their own real 
estate developments and from construction contracting 
services. During the fiscal year 2022-23, Omaxe completed 
the delivery of 2.75 million square feet. These deliveries 
encompassed projects located in various cities such as 
Chandigarh, Lucknow, Faridabad, Ludhiana, and Vrindavan. 
During FY 23, Omaxe grew its sales by more than 25% 
from 618 crores to 773 crores and also expanded its reach 
from 28 cities to 29 cities.
New Launches during FY2022-23
During the period under review, your Company’s new 
launches were strategically located in prominent cities 
such as Faridabad, New Chandigarh, Lucknow, Ratlam and 
Ludhiana. The group’s net worth as of the end of FY 2022-23 
stood at Rs. 898 crores.
OUTLOOK
The Indian Real Estate sector’s outlook for the year 2023 
and near future is upbeat with strong demand from both 
Residential and Commercial segments driving healthy 
growth. The Residential sector is likely to continue to be the 
BOARD’S REPORT
Dear Members,
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the Thirty Fourth Annual Report on the business and operations of the Company 
together with the audited financial statements of the Company for the Financial Year (“FY”) ended March 31, 2023.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
A brief overview on standalone and consolidated financial performance of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 
2023 is as follows:
(Rupees in Crores)
Particulars
Standalone
Consolidated
31.03.2023
(Audited)
31.03.2022
(Audited)
31.03.2023
(Audited)
31.03.2022
(Audited)
Revenue from Operations
459.39
411.65
773.33
617.80
Other Income
12.18
10.53
24.68
20.14
Total Income
471.57
422.18
798.01
637.94
Expenses
Operating Expenditure
446.53
285.16
866.29
557.58
Employee Benefit Expense
39.94
37.59
39.36
40.34
Depreciation and Amortization 
Expenses
55.66
38.95
65.37
46.58
Finance Cost
104.81
103.35
112.80
121.09
Other Expenses
74.30
45.30
170.96
66.73
Total Expenses
721.24
510.35
1,254.78
832.32
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax
(249.67)
(88.17)
(456.77)
(194.38)
Tax Expenses
(56.48)
(11.88)
(105.69)
(32.73)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates
-
-
(0.00)
0.04
Profit/(Loss) before comprehensive 
income
(193.19)
(76.29)
(351.08)
(161.61)
Other comprehensive incomes
(0.35)
2.42
1.39
(0.38)
Total Comprehensive Income for the 
year
(193.54)
(73.87)
(349.69)
(161.99)
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 37 
key growth driver, with the key factors driving the demand 
being rising incomes, increasing urbanization with high 
growth of Tier-II and Tier-III cities especially, and a growing 
population. The commercial sector is also expected to 
perform well, with demand being driven by factors such as 
the economy’s expansion, growth of the IT-BPM and BFSI 
sectors, expansion of the manufacturing sector, continued 
growth of e-commerce and co-working spaces, and the 
acceleration of Return-To-Office mandates.
Key trends and highlights related to the outlook for the Indian 
Real Estate sector in 2023 are:
• 
In CBRE’s India Live-Work-Shop 2022 survey, the Indian 
consumers who were planning to relocate showed the 
highest preference to buy homes than rent as compared 
to other countries. Nearly 72% indicated they intend to buy 
a home. This includes the Millennials, who were dubbed 
as ‘Generation Rent’, with ~70% indicating a preference 
to buy instead of rent. Hence, housing demand is likely to 
sustain even amidst the impact of monetary tightening 
and economic slowdown.
• 
Mid-end residential segment that constituted the 
maximum in terms of sales and new launches in 2022 
is expected to drive the momentum going forward. 
With the withdrawal of affordable housing incentives 
by the Government, this segment is likely to witness 
some rationalization. In terms of % growth, the luxury 
and premium segments are likely to grow the fastest, 
however, given their smaller contribution their overall 
impact on residential growth will be overshadowed by 
the mid-end and high-end segments.
• 
Aggregate office-based employment across top six Indian 
cities is projected to grow by 5 – 7% in 2023, however, 
India’s status as an attractive source of high calibre and 
cost-effective talent will result in continued expansion 
ofdemand for leasing of Office space. For e.g., more than 
500 Global Capability Centres are likely to be set-up by 
2026, i.e., addition of a third of the total GCCs already 
set-up till end of 2022.
• 
Leasing in investment-grade buildings from leading 
and institutional developers/ owners was 40 – 45% of 
the overall activity in 2022. This share will continue to 
remain at 30%+ levels going forward because of factors 
such as IT-BPM and BFSI sectors continuing to be the 
main growth drivers and focus on complying with ESG 
regulations that prescribe ambitious net-zero targets.
• 
CBRE’s India Live-Work-Shop survey showed that 91% 
Employers prefer their employees to work from office 
for 3 or more days in a week. Hence, Return-To-Office 
mandates will drive increase in occupancy rates in 
offices, while the longer term trend of offering hybrid 
working as a retention strategy would continue. Select 
Tier-II markets will see companies setting up offices to 
be closer to their talent pool.
• 
With the consumer demand including on discretionary 
spending expected to remain robust in 2023 despite 
impeding slowdown, the Retail segment is likely to see 
increased activity in terms of supply addition and leasing. 
Combined with the consumer preference for shopping 
in-store across various product categories, the outlook 
for near future is secure for the segment.
• 
Construction costs including material, energy and labour 
are expected to ease in 2023 whereas robust demand 
will create room for price/ rental growth in key markets. 
Hence, companies that can benefit from these trends will 
see reasonable increase in profitability.
Overall, the Indian real estate sector is expected to grow 
at a healthy pace in 2023 and players that will align their 
operations in line with the above trends are likely to benefit 
the most.
DIVIDEND
A.	 Preference Shares
	
The Board of Directors of your Company has 
recommended dividend at the rate of 0.1% on 
25,00,00,000 unlisted “0.1% Non-Cumulative, Non-
Convertible, Redeemable Preference Shares” having 
face value of Rs.10/- each for the financial year ended 
March 31, 2023.
B.	 Equity Shares
	
In view of the losses and business requirements of the 
Company, the Board of Directors of your Company has 
decided not to recommend any dividend on equity shares 
of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 
2023.
DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY
The Board of Directors of your Company had approved the 
Dividend Distribution Policy in accordance with the provisions 
of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015. The objective of this 
policy is to establish the parameters to be considered by the 
38 
Omaxe Limited
Board of Directors before declaring or recommending the 
dividend. The said policy is available at the official website of 
the Company at https://www.omaxe.com/investor/dividend-
distribution-policy.
INVESTOR EDUCATION & PROTECTION FUND (IEPF)
During the FY 2022-23, in accordance with the applicable 
provisions of Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as 
“the Act”) read with Investor Education and Protection Fund 
Authority (Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 
2016 (hereinafter referred to as the “IEPF Rules”), unclaimed 
dividend aggregating to Rs. 2,81,159/- and corresponding 
24,492 equity shares, pertaining to unclaimed dividend for 
the financial year 2014-15, were transferred to the Investor 
Education and Protection Fund (IEPF). The details of dividend 
and shares transferred by the Company to IEPF are available 
on the websites of the Company and IEPF. Those members 
whose dividend and/or shares have been transferred to IEPF 
Authority are advised and requested to follow the procedure 
specified by IEPF Authority for claiming their dividend/shares, 
or may write to Link Intime India Private Limited, Registrar & 
Share Transfer Agent (RTA) of the Company.
DIRECTORATE & KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
During the period under review, following changes occurred 
in the Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel 
(“KMPs”) of the Company:
-	
Mr. Manoj Kumar Dua was appointed as Chief Financial 
Officer of the Company w.e.f. 15.11.2022 by the Board of 
Directors, upon the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, in place of Mr. Arun Kumar 
Pandey who retired from the position of Chief Financial 
Officer w.e.f. the close of business hours on 14.11.2022 
upon attaining the age of superannuation.
-	
Mr. Vikas Khandelwal was appointed as the Company 
Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company 
w.e.f. 14.02.2023 by the Board of Directors, upon the 
recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee, in place of Mr. Navin Jain who resigned 
from the position of Company Secretary and Compliance 
Officer w.e.f. the close of business hours on 13.02.2023.
Further, in order to bring more professionalism and 
independence in the Board of Directors of the Company and 
to raise the standard of corporate governance in the Company 
and its Management, with effect from May 27, 2023: 
-	
Mr. Rohtas Goel relinquished the office of Executive 
Director and consequent to the same his designation has 
been changed from “Chairman & Whole Time Director” 
to “Chairman & Non-Executive Director/ Non-Executive 
Chairman” w.e.f. 27.05.2023. The Board of Directors of 
the Company took note of the same in its meeting held 
on 26.05.2023 and approved the terms and conditions 
of appointment and remuneration of Mr. Rohtas Goel, 
as the Chairman & Non-Executive Director of the 
Company, upon the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee, subject to the approval of 
Members at their ensuing Annual General Meeting.
-	
Mr. Aroon Kumar Aggarwal was appointed as an 
additional director (Non-Executive and Independent) by 
the Board, upon the recommendation of Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee for a term of 3 consecutive 
years w.e.f. 27.05.2023. 
Further, since, in terms of Regulation 17(1C) of SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015, the approval of shareholders for 
appointment or re-appointment of a person on the Board 
of Directors is required to be taken at the next general 
meeting or within a time period of three months from the 
date of appointment, whichever is earlier, the Company 
has issued Notice of Postal Ballot to the Shareholders on 
24.07.2023, seeking approval of the Members on the special 
resolution for regularization/confirmation on appointment of 
Mr. Aroon Kumar Aggarwal, as Non-Executive and 
Independent Director, by communicating assent/dissent 
through remote e-voting on or before 24.08.2023. The 
voting results of the Postal Ballot shall be submitted by the 
Company to the Stock Exchanges i.e. BSE Ltd. and National 
Stock Exchange of India Ltd. on or before 26.08.2023.
All the Independent Directors of the Company have registered 
themselves in the data bank of Independent Directors 
pursuant to the provisions of the Companies (Appointment 
& Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014. The Company 
has received disclosures from all the Independent Directors 
that they fulfill conditions specified under Section 149(6) of 
Companies Act, 2013 and Regulation 16(1) (b) of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
and are Independent of the Management of the Company. 
Based on the declarations received from the Independent 
Directors, the Board of Directors has confirmed that they meet 
the criteria of independence as mentioned under Regulation 
16(1) (b) of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and Section 
149(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and possess high integrity, 
expertise and experience including the proficiency required 
to discharge the duties and responsibilities as Directors of 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 39 
the Company. Independent Directors, in their disclosures 
submitted to the Company, have confirmed that they are not 
aware of any circumstances or situation which exists or may be 
reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their ability 
to discharge their duties. Further, the details of Independent 
Directors’ meeting have been included in the Corporate 
Governance Report forming part of this Annual Report.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of the Act, 
Mr. Rohtas Goel (DIN: 00003735) is retiring by rotation from 
the position of Director at the ensuing Annual General Meeting 
and being eligible, offers himself for re- appointment.
The required details of director(s) seeking approval of 
appointment/ re-appointment at the 34th AGM of the Company, 
including nature of expertise in specific functional areas and 
names of the Companies in which they hold Directorship and 
Membership/ Chairmanship of Committees of the Board, as 
stipulated under SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and applicable 
Secretarial Standard, are provided in the Notice of 34th AGM.
PUBLIC DEPOSITS
During the FY 2022-23, the Company has not accepted any 
deposits from the public falling within the ambit of Chapter 
V of Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Acceptance of 
Deposits) Rules, 2014. 
Further, the existing outstanding & unclaimed deposits, 
aggregating to Rs. 0.69 Crores as on March 31, 2023, were 
accepted in compliance with the provisions of Section 73 and 
76 and other relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Rules made thereunder, as amended from time to time. 
The details of the Deposit are as follows:
a.	
Accepted during the year: Nil
b.	
Outstanding deposits as at the end of the year: Rs. 0.69 
Crores
c. 
Whether there has been any default in repayment of 
deposits or payment of interest thereon during the year 
and if so, number of such cases and the total amount 
involved:
(i)	 At the beginning of the year: NIL
(ii)	 Maximum during the year: NIL
(iii)	At the end of the year: NIL
d.	
The details of deposits which are not in compliance with 
the requirements of Chapter V of the Companies Act, 
2013: NIL
e.	
Details of National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT)/ 
National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) 
orders with respect to depositors for extension of time 
for repayment, penalty imposed, if any: NIL
These outstanding deposits have already been matured, but 
are unclaimed, and the periodical reminders are being sent 
to the deposit-holders to claim the same. However, if any 
amount of these deposits will remain unclaimed for a period 
of 7 years, such amount shall be statutorily transferred by 
the Company to Investors Education and Protection Fund 
(IEPF), in accordance with the applicable provisions of the 
Act and IEPF Rules.
LISTING WITH STOCK EXCHANGES
The equity shares of your Company continue to be listed on 
the BSE Ltd. (BSE) and the National Stock Exchange of India 
Ltd. (NSE). The Company has paid annual listing fees for 
the FY 2022-23 to BSE & NSE within prescribed timelines. 
The Company has also paid the Annual Custody Fees to 
National Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (‘CDSL’) for the period 
under review.
STATUTORY AUDITORS & STATUTORY AUDIT REPORT
The Members of the Company at their 33rd Annual General 
Meeting, held on September 28, 2022, re-appointed M/s 
BSD & Co., Chartered Accountants, (Firm Registration No. 
000312S) as Statutory Auditors of the Company for a further 
period of five years at a remuneration as decided by the Board 
of Directors of the Company.
The audit report, issued by the Statutory Auditors of 
the Company, on standalone and consolidated financial 
statements of the Company for the financial year ended on 
31st March 2023, does not contain any qualification or adverse 
remarks. The comments of the Statutory Auditors, when read 
together with the relevant notes to accounts and accounting 
policies are self-explanatory and therefore do not call for any 
further comments.
Further, in the course of performance of duties as Auditor, 
no offence/ fraud by the Company or against the Company or 
by any officer or employees has been detected or reported in 
terms of the provisions of Section 143(12) of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the Rules framed thereunder.
SECRETARIAL AUDITOR & SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Companies 
40 
Omaxe Limited
Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, M/s DMK Associates, 
Company Secretaries were appointed as Secretarial Auditors 
of the Company for the FY 2022-23. The Company has 
provided all assistance, facilities, documents, records and 
clarifications etc. to the Secretarial Auditors for conducting 
their audit. The Secretarial Audit Report in Form MR-3 along 
with Annual Secretarial Compliance Report for the FY 2022-
23 are annexed as Annexure IA & IB to this report. The said 
reports do not contain any qualifications or adverse remarks 
and are self-explanatory and therefore do not call for any 
further explanation.
Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 24A of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, the Secretarial Audit Reports of material 
unlisted subsidiaries of the Company i.e. M/s Omaxe New 
Chandigarh Developers Private Limited and M/s Omaxe 
Buildhome Limited are annexed herewith as Annexure IC & 
ID respectively, forming part of this report.
COST AUDITOR & COST AUDIT REPORT
M/s S.K. Bhatt & Associates, Cost Accountants were appointed 
as Cost Auditors to conduct the audit of cost records of the 
Company for FY 2022-23. The Company has maintained the 
necessary accounts and records as specified by the Central 
Government under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 
pertaining to the cost records and statement.
The report given by the Cost Auditors for the Financial Year 
2022-23 shall be furnished to the Central Government within 
prescribed timelines as per provisions of applicable laws for 
the time being in force. The said report does not contain any 
qualifications or adverse remarks and is self-explanatory 
and therefore does not call for any further explanation.
Further, in terms of the provisions of Section 148 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 14 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, the Board of Directors, at 
the recommendations of Audit Committee, had appointed M/s 
S.K. Bhatt & Associates, Cost Accountants as Cost Auditors to 
conduct the audit of the cost records of the Company for the 
FY 2023-24 at a remuneration of upto Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees 
Two Lakh only) plus out of pocket expenses and applicable 
taxes. The Board hereby recommends the remuneration 
of the Cost Auditors for ratification by the Members of the 
Company at their ensuing Annual General Meeting. 
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY (CSR)
A Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee has been 
constituted in accordance with the provisions of Section 135 
of the Companies Act, 2013. The details of composition of CSR 
Committee are included in the Corporate Governance Report, 
forming part of this Annual Report. In terms of the Section 135 
and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 
read with relevant rules made thereunder, since the Company 
had average net losses during immediately preceding three 
financial years, the Company was not required to contribute 
any amount towards CSR activities during the FY 2022-23. 
The CSR Annual Report of NIL expenditure and other relevant 
details is annexed as Annexure II.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT
The Management Discussion and Analysis Report for the 
year under review, as required under Regulation 34(2)(e) of 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, as amended, is presented in 
a separate section forming part of this Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
The Corporate Governance Report as stipulated under 
Regulation 34(3) and other applicable Regulations read with 
Part C of Schedule V of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 is 
included in this Annual Report.
The Statutory Auditors of the Company, M/s BSD & Co., 
Chartered Accountants, have issued a certificate with respect 
to Company’s compliance with the requirements of Corporate 
Governance as stipulated under Regulation 34(3) read with 
Schedule V of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and the said 
certificate is annexed to the Corporate Governance Report 
forming part of the Annual Report.
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
As per Regulation 34 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, a 
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report is annexed 
as Annexure III to this Board’s Report.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
Pursuant to the requirement under section 134(5) of the 
Companies Act, 2013, with respect to Directors’ Responsibility 
Statement, it is hereby confirmed that:
a.	
In the preparation of the annual accounts for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2023, the applicable Accounting 
Standards have been followed and there are no material 
departures;
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 41 
b.	
The Directors had selected such accounting policies 
and applied them consistently and made judgments and 
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a 
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as 
on March 31, 2023 and of the profit/(loss) of the Company 
for the year ended on that date;
c.	
The Directors had taken proper and sufficient care for 
the maintenance of adequate accounting records in 
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 
2013 for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for 
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
d.	
The Annual Accounts of the Company for the Financial 
Year ended March 31, 2023 were prepared on a going 
concern basis;
e.	
The Directors had laid down internal financial controls 
to be followed by the Company and that such internal 
financial controls are adequate and were operating 
effectively;
f.	
The Directors had devised proper systems to ensure 
compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws 
and that such systems were adequate and operating 
effectively.
WEBLINK OF ANNUAL RETURN
Pursuant to Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with 
Rule 12 of the Companies (Management and Administration) 
Rules, 2014 and Section 134(3) (a) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
the copy of Annual Report in form MGT-7 for the FY 2022-23 
shall be made available at the official website of the Company 
at https://www.omaxe.com/investor/annual-return-as-per-
section-92-of-companies-act-2013, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
BOARD MEETINGS
The Board of Directors of your Company met Four (4) 
times during the FY 2022-23. The details of such meetings 
are given in Corporate Governance Report forming part 
of this Annual Report. The intervening gap between these 
meetings was within the period prescribed under the 
Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI LODR Regulations. The 
notice and agenda including all material information and 
minimum information required to be made available to the 
Board under SEBI LODR Regulations, were circulated to all 
directors, well within the prescribed time, before the meeting 
or placed at the meeting with the permission of majority of 
Directors (including the Independent Directors). During the 
year under review, separate meeting of the Independent 
Directors was held on February 13, 2023, without the 
presence of Non-Independent Directors and the members of 
the Company’s Management.
COMPOSITION OF COMMITTEES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
AND MEETINGS THEREOF
The details of composition of Committees of Board of 
Directors, their meetings held during the period under 
review and other relevant details/ information are included in 
the Corporate Governance Report forming part of this Annual 
Report.
PERFORMANCE 
EVALUATION 
OF 
THE 
BOARD, 
ITS 
COMMITTEES AND DIRECTORS
The details of the performance evaluation are provided in 
Corporate Governance Report forming part of this Annual 
Report.
POLICY ON APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS AND THEIR 
REMUNERATION
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 
the Board of Directors, at the recommendation of Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee has framed a “policy on 
Appointment and Remuneration of Director(s), KMP(s) 
and SMP(s)” which is annexed herewith as Annexure IV 
and also available at the website of the Company at 
https://www.omaxe.com/investor/criteria-of-making-
payments-to-non-executive-directors.
The Members of the Company had, at the recommendation 
of Nomination & Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee 
and Board, approved payment of commission upto 1% of 
the net profits of the Company for each financial year, as 
calculated under Section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company for a period 
of five years i.e. from financial year 2018-19 to 2022-23. 
However, due to loss/ absence of profits for the financial year 
2022-23, the Company, at the recommendation of Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee, has not paid any commission to 
the Non-Executive Directors, during the period under review, 
except the payment of sitting fee. Details of such fee and 
remuneration paid to each director are provided in Corporate 
Governance Report forming part of this Annual Report.
Further, since such approval of the Members has been 
expired, an enabling approval of Members is being sought 
for payment of commission upto 1% of the net profits of the 
42 
Omaxe Limited
Company, each financial year, for a further period of five 
years, i.e., from financial year 2023-24 to 2027-28.
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR INVESTMENT
Your Company is engaged in the business of providing 
infrastructure facilities, i.e., housing, real estate development 
etc. The provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013, 
except sub-section (1), are not applicable to the Company. 
The Company is in compliance with the provisions of sub-
section (1) of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013.
PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENT WITH 
RELATED PARTIES
During the year, no materially significant related party 
transaction was entered by the Company with its Promoters, 
Key Managerial Personnel or other designated persons which 
may have potential conflict with the interest of the Company 
at large. Details of all related party transactions are disclosed 
in the financial statement of the Company forming part of 
this Annual Report. The attention of the Members is drawn 
to Note No. 53 and Note No. 55 of Significant Accounting 
Policies and Notes on Standalone Financial Statements and 
Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively, which set 
out related party disclosures. None of the transactions with 
related parties is material transaction and/or transaction 
which is not at Arm’s length, requiring disclosure pursuant 
to Section 134(3)(h) of the Act read with Rule 8(2) of the 
Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014. Therefore the information 
required in prescribed form AOC - 2 is not applicable. During 
the year under review, the Company had not entered into 
any contract/ arrangement/transaction with the related 
parties which could be considered material in accordance 
with the Policy of the Company on materiality of related 
party transactions without obtaining requisite approvals. The 
Policy on Related Party Transaction(s) and its materiality 
is available on the Company’s website under the web link 
https://www.omaxe.com/investor/policy-on-dealing-with-
related-party-transactions .
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL & SYSTEMS
The Board of Directors appointed M/s Doogar & Associates 
as Internal Auditors of the Company for the FY 2022-23. 
Internal Financial Control & Systems of the Company have 
been devised through its extensive experience that ensures 
control over various functions of its business. The Company 
practices quality management system for design, planning, 
construction and marketing. Periodic audits conducted by 
Internal Auditors and Statutory Auditors provide means 
whereby any weakness, whether financial or otherwise, is 
identified. All financial and audit control systems are also 
reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors 
of the Company. Based on the report of the Internal Auditors, 
process owners undertake corrective actions in their 
respective areas and thereby strengthen the controls.
MATERIAL 
CHANGES 
AND 
COMMITMENT, 
IF 
ANY, 
AFFECTING THE FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE COMPANY
There are no material changes and commitments, involving 
the Company and affecting the financial position of the 
Company, which have occurred between the end of the 
financial year 2022-23 and the date of this report.
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION 
and FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNING AND OUTGO
The information on conservation of energy, technology 
absorption and foreign exchange earnings and outgo, is as 
under:
-	
Conservation of Energy
	
The Company operations do not account for substantial 
energy consumption. However, the Company is taking all 
possible measures to conserve energy. As an ongoing 
process, the followings are (a) the steps taken or impact 
on conservation of energy; (b) the steps taken by the 
Company for utilizing alternate sources of energy; and (c) 
the capital investment on energy conservation equipment:
	
The Company has been able to reduce energy consumption 
by using star rated appliances where possible and also 
through the replacement of CFL lights with LED lights. 
Monitoring resource usage, improved process efficiency, 
reduced waste generation and disposal costs have also 
supported the cause. The Company continues to explore 
collaboration with contractors/partners that ensure 
conservation of energy and resources. On this front, the 
Company promotes the use of innovative technologies such 
as green buildings and other energy efficient measures for 
construction of their projects. Some of the best practices 
undertaken for the conservation of energy are:
1.	
Comprehensive energy-modeling during the design 
stage to achieve energy conservation while meeting 
the functional requirements for both residential and 
commercial projects;
2.	
Selecting climate appropriate material for the 
building;
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 43 
3.	
Using energy saving LED light fixtures.
4.	
Conservation of energy at all of its offices by 
replacing lighting system with LEDs, installation of 
star energy conservation air conditioning systems, 
installation of automatic power controllers to save 
maximum demand charges and energy, installation 
of TFT monitors that saves power. 
-	
Technology Absorption
	
The Company has implemented best of the class 
applications to manage and automate its business 
processes to achieve higher efficiency, data integrity 
and data security. It has helped it in implementing best 
business practices and shorter time to market new 
schemes, products and customer services. The Company’s 
investment in technology has improved customer services 
and development of new business opportunities.
(a)	 The efforts made towards technology absorption:
	
The Company’s endeavor is to use upgraded, 
advance and latest technology machines, equipment 
etc, which improves customer delight and employee 
efficiency. Some of the initiatives are: Deployment of 
machines to substitute manual work partly or fully, 
the improvement of existing or the development/ 
deployment of new construction technologies to 
speed up the process and make construction more 
efficient, using LED lighting for common areas of 
our developments and in our office buildings, using 
timers for external lighting and basement lighting in 
some of our projects for switching lights on/ off as per 
peak and non-peak hours. The Company promotes 
the use of electronic means of communication with 
its customers by sending electronic communication 
for confirmation of payments and other similar 
purposes. The Company also encourages the use of 
electronic mode of communications to and from all 
its stakeholders. Soft copies of the annual report(s) 
along with the notice convening the Annual General 
Meeting(s) were sent to its shareholders so as to 
minimize the usage of paper.
(b)	 The benefits derived like product improvement, 
cost reduction, product development or import 
substitution:
	
The Company’s approach in adopting technology 
has improved customer satisfaction and created 
new opportunities for development of businesses. 
Also, there is cost reduction in the administration 
and construction, through utilisation of scheduling 
and planning, efficient practices etc. Some of the 
initiatives are: In-depth planning of construction 
activities 
to 
achieve 
shorter 
time-lines 
and 
reduced consumption of man and material at site, 
organising/scheduling/structuring 
the 
work 
in 
tandem with job descriptions to ensure efficiency, 
engaging specialised sub-contractors/ consultants 
to complete tasks efficiently, introducing rules and 
regulations based on national and international 
standards and internal classifications, monitoring 
performance at projects and administrative offices.
(c)	 Information 
regarding 
imported 
technology 
(imported during last 3 years) and Expenditure 
incurred on Research & Development:
	
Not Applicable, since the Company has not imported 
any technology or incurred expenses of Research & 
Development, during such period.
-	
Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
	
There were no earnings but an expenditure of Rs. 1.35 
Crore in foreign currency during the period under review 
as against no earnings and expenditure in the previous 
financial year.
RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY
The Company has its Risk Management Policy in line with 
Regulation 21 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015, which identifies and 
evaluates business risks and opportunities. The Company 
recognizes that these risks need to be managed and mitigated 
to protect the interest of the shareholders and stakeholders, 
to achieve business objectives and enable sustainable growth. 
The Company has also constituted a Risk Management 
Committee in accordance with SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015 and the details of which, including terms of reference, 
have been mentioned in the Corporate Governance Report 
forming part of this Annual Report. The risk management 
framework is aimed at effectively mitigating the Company’s 
various business and operational risks, through strategic 
actions. Risk management is embedded in critical business 
activities, functions and processes. The risks are reviewed 
for the change in the nature and extent of the major risks 
identified since the last assessment. It also provides control 
measures for risk and future action plans.
44 
Omaxe Limited
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 197 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment 
and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules 2014, 
details of the Employees are set out in Annexure V. 
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS
The details of Familiarization Programme conducted by the 
Company for non-executive directors are mentioned in the 
Corporate Governance Report forming part of this Annual 
Report.
SUBSIDIARY, JOINT VENTURE & ASSOCIATE COMPANIES
As on 31.03.2023, your Company has 112 Subsidiaries 
(including 2 material unlisted subsidiary companies namely, 
M/s Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited 
& M/s Omaxe Buildhome Limited and 2 LLPs namely M/s 
Dreamze New Faridabad Developers LLP and M/s Shine Grow 
New Faridabad LLP), 2 Joint-Ventures Companies (“JV”) and 
3 Associate Companies (“Associates”). 
During the period under review, there were following changes 
in the Subsidiaries, JV and Associates of your Company:
S. No.
Name of the Company
Relationship
1. 
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP
Became Subsidiary on 21.05.2022 from Associate
2. 
Worldstreet Sports Center Limited
Incorporated as Wholly Owned Subsidiary on 02.06.2022
3. 
Blackbull Retails Private Limited
Incorporated as Wholly Owned Subsidiary on 16.06.2022
4. 
Omaxe Next Private Limited
Incorporated as Wholly Owned Subsidiary on 21.06.2022
5. 
Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private Limited
Incorporated as Wholly Owned Subsidiary on 22.07.2022
6. 
Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private Limited
Incorporated as Wholly Owned Subsidiary on 03.08.2022
7. 
Colors Real Estate Private Limited
Became Wholly Owned Subsidiary w.e.f. 05.08.2022
8. 
Estatelance Developers Private Limited
Incorporated as Step Down Wholly Owned Subsidiary on 
09.09.2022
9. 
Estatelance Real Estate Private Limited
Incorporated as Step Down Wholly Owned Subsidiary on 
08.12.2022
10. 
Omaxe Be Together Project Developers Private 
Limited (Formerly known as Be Together Vrindavan 
Developers Private Limited)
Incorporated as Associate Company on 29.12.2022
11. 
Salvatore Infra Buildtech Limited
Became Step Down Subsidiary w.e.f. 18.03.2023
In terms of Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 27, there are 
145 other companies whose accounts have been consolidated 
with Company’s accounts. List of the companies whose 
financial statements have been consolidated at the year-end 
is given in the Notes to Accounts. 
MATERIAL UNLISTED SUBSIDIARY
In terms of the provisions of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015, your Company has in place a policy for determining 
‘Material Subsidiary’ and the said policy is available on the 
Company’s website at https://www.omaxe.com/investor/policy-
for-determining-material-subsidiaries. As on March 31, 2023, 
your Company had two material unlisted subsidiaries namely, 
M/s Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited and 
M/s Omaxe Buildhome Limited. 
ACCOUNTS OF SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Pursuant to applicable Accounting Standards on Consolidated 
Financial Statements and Financial Reporting issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (‘ICAI’) and as 
prescribed by Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), 
Consolidated Financial Statements, which includes the 
financial information of the subsidiaries, form part of this 
Annual Report.
As per the provision of first proviso of Section 129(3) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5 of the Companies 
(Accounts) Rules, 2014, the balance sheets of the Subsidiary 
Companies have not been attached with this Annual Report 
and a separate statement containing the salient features of 
financial statements of its subsidiaries in Form AOC-1 has 
been attached with the Consolidated Financial Statements of 
the Company forming part of this Annual Report.
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section 136 of the 
Act, the financial statements of the Company, consolidated 
financial statements along with relevant documents and 
separate audited accounts in respect of subsidiaries, 
are also available on the website of the Company at 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 45 
https://www.omaxe.com/investor/audited-financial-
statements-of-subsidiary-companies. 
Shareholders 
may 
write to the Company for the annual financial statements 
and detailed information on subsidiary companies. Further, 
the documents shall also be available for inspection by the 
shareholders at the registered office of the Company.
COMPLIANCE OF THE SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
The Board confirms that, during the period under review, 
the Company has complied with the applicable Secretarial 
Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India (ICSI) as amended from time to time.
POLICY ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT
The Company has constituted an Internal Complaints 
Committee as required under the Sexual Harassment of 
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 (“POSH”). The required details have been disclosed 
in the Corporate Governance Report forming part of this 
Annual Report.
DETAILS OF PROCEEDINGS UNDER INSOLVENCY AND 
BANKRUPCY CODE, 2016
During the year, no applications were made or case was 
pending against the Company, under the Insolvency and 
Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
DETAILS OF VALUATION DONE WITH RESPECT TO LOANS 
TAKEN FROM BANKS OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTION
During the year, there was no one time settlement done in 
respect of loans taken from Banks or Financial Institutions.
WHISTLE BLOWER POLICY/ VIGIL MECHANISM
Your Company is committed to adhere to the highest standards 
of ethical, moral and legal conduct of its business operations. 
To maintain these standards, the Company has implemented 
the Whistle Blower Policy (“the Policy”), to provide an 
avenue for employees to report matters without the risk of 
subsequent victimization, discrimination or disadvantage. 
The Policy applies to all employees of the Company and 
Pursuant to the Policy, the whistle blowers can raise 
concerns relating to matters such as unethical behaviour, 
actual or suspected, fraud or violation of Company’s code of 
conduct etc. The Policy aims to ensure that serious concerns 
are properly raised and addressed and are recognized as an 
enabling factor in administering good governance practices. 
The Whistle Blower Policy is available at Company’s website 
and can be accessed at https://www.omaxe.com/investor/vigil-
mechanism-whistle-blower-policy. The details of same have 
been provided in the Corporate Governance Report forming 
part of this Annual Report.
CERTAIN TYPES OF AGREEMENTS BINDING THE COMPANY/ 
SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS
There is no subsisting agreement which is required to be 
disclosed in terms of Clause 5A of Paragraph A of Part A of 
Schedule III pursuant to Para G of Schedule V of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015. 
Further, during the financial year ended March 31, 2023, the 
Promoter/members of promoter group of the Company i.e. 
Mr. Rohtas Goel, Promoter & Chairman of the Company, and 
his brother Mr. Sunil Goel, M/s Sunil Goel HUF & Mrs. Seema 
Goel (SG Group) have entered into an understanding, subject 
to execution of relevant agreements etc, as may be required 
from time to time, for one-time full and final resolution of 
all/any disputes and differences among them; withdrawal/ 
quashing, as the case may be, and close all litigations filed 
against each-other and pending before any courts/ tribunals/ 
judicial & quasi-judicial authorities/ statutory authorities/ 
regulatory 
authorities/ 
financial 
institutions/ 
private 
institutions/ police and any other authority or body of a like 
nature; transfer of shareholding of SG Group in Omaxe Group 
Companies; and re-classification of SG Group from promoter 
and/or promoter group category of Omaxe Limited, subject 
to the satisfaction of the conditions set out in Regulation 
31A of SEBI LODR Regulations and other applicable laws 
and necessary approval(s). However, this understanding/ 
settlement neither, directly or indirectly or potentially or 
whose purpose and effect is to, impact the management or 
control of the Company or impose any restriction or create 
any liability upon the Company.
GREEN INITIATIVES
In furtherance of the Green Initiative in Corporate Governance 
announced by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, the Company 
had in past requested the shareholders to register their 
email addresses with the Registrar/Company for receiving 
the report, accounts, and notices etc. in electronic mode. 
However, some of the shareholders have not yet registered 
their e-mail IDs with the Company. Shareholders who 
46 
Omaxe Limited
have not registered their email addresses are once again 
requested to register the same with the Company by sending 
their requests to investors@omaxe.com. 
Further, Ministry of Corporate Affairs and SEBI vide various 
Circulars have granted exemption to all the Companies from 
dispatching physical copies of Notices and Annual Reports to 
Shareholders and it is always advisable to all the shareholders 
to keep their email ids registered/ updated with the Company 
in order to receive important communication/information on 
time.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS INSURANCE (‘D AND O 
INSURANCE’)
Pursuant to SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, the Company has 
taken Directors and Officers insurance (‘D and O Insurance’) 
from SBI General Insurance Company Limited.
INVESTOR RELATIONS
The Company is timely redressing the Investor Complaints 
through the SEBI Complaint Redressal System (SCORES). 
As a part of compliance, the Company has constituted 
an “Investor Grievances cum Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee” (IGSRC) to redress investors’ grievances. The 
details of the same are provided in the Corporate Governance 
Report forming part of this Report.
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS PASSED BY THE 
REGULATORS OR COURTS
The details of the same are provided in Corporate Governance 
Report forming part of this Annual Report. No significant or 
material orders were passed by the Regulators or Courts 
or Tribunals which impact the going concern status and 
company’s operations in future.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
Your Directors would like to express their sincere appreciation 
for assistance and co-operation received from the vendors 
and stakeholders including financial institutions, banks, 
Central & State Government Authorities, other business 
associates, who have extended their valuable sustained 
support and encouragement during the year under review.
Your Directors are thankful to the shareholders and 
customers for their continued patronage. Your Directors also 
commend the continuing commitment and dedication of the 
employees at all levels. The Directors look forward for their 
continued support in future for the Company’s success.
For and on behalf of the Board
Omaxe Limited
Sd/-
Rohtas Goel
Chairman & Non-Executive Director
DIN: 00003735
Regd. Office: 19-B, First Floor,
Omaxe Celebration Mall, Sohna Road,
Gurugram, Haryana-122001
Date: 10.08.2023
Place: New Delhi
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 47 
To,
The Members,
M/s OMAXE LIMITED
CIN: L74899HR1989PLC051918
SHOP NO-19-B, First Floor
Omaxe Celebration Mall,
Sohna Road, Gurugram, Haryana-122001 
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by Omaxe Limited (hereinafter 
called the “Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in 
a manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating 
the corporate conduct/statutory compliances and expressing 
our opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of Secretarial Audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has during the 
audit period covering the financial year ended on 31 March 
2023 (“Audit Period”) complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to 
the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter along with Annexure-A attached to this report:-
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended on 31 March 2023 
according to the provisions of:
(i)	 The Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder 
(the “Act”);
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 and the 
rules made thereunder;
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder; 
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment (“FDI”), Overseas Direct Investments 
(“ODI”) and External Commercial Borrowings (“ECB”); 
(No FDI and ECB was taken and no ODI was made by the 
Company during the Audit Period);
(v)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’) as amended from time to time:-
a.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015( herein after referred as “SEBI 
LODR”);
b.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
c.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011;
d.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021(Not applicable to the Company 
during the review period);
e.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable to 
the Company during the review period);
f.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) 
Regulations, 2021;(Not applicable to the Company 
during the review period);
g.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;(Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit Period);
ANNEXURE IA
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31.03.2023
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
48 
Omaxe Limited
h.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period);
i.	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and 
dealing with client; (Not applicable as the Company 
is not registered as Registrars to an Issue and Share 
Transfer Agent during the Audit period);
(vi) OTHER LAWS SPECIFICALLY APPLICABLE TO THE 
COMPANY AS IDENTIFIED BY THE MANAGEMENT
	
As per the information provided and confirmed by the 
management of the Company, following specific sector 
law applicable on the Company are as follows:
a.	
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 
2016 and rules of the state(s) where project(s) were 
being undertaken.
b. 
The Building and Other Construction Workers 
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of 
Service) Act, 1996.
c.	
The Land Acquisition Act, 1984.
d.	
The Transfer of Property Act, 1882.
e.	
The Indian Easements Act, 1882.
f.	
The Registration Act, 1908
 
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following: 
(i)	 Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of 
Company Secretaries of India (SS-1 and SS-2).
(ii)	 The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with BSE Limited (“BSE”) and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (“NSE”), if any. 
	
During the Audit Period, the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc. mentioned above.
	
Based on the information received and records 
maintained, we further report that:
1.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted with optimum combination of Executive, 
Non-Executive, Women and Independent Directors. 
During the audit period, there has been no change in 
the composition of the Board of Directors.
2.	
In compliance with the provisions of the Act and 
Secretarial Standard, the adequate notices were 
given to all the directors to schedule the Board & 
Committee Meetings along with agenda and detailed 
notes on agenda, other than those meetings which 
were held at shorter notice and a system exists 
for seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting.
3.	
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee 
Meetings have been carried out with requisite 
majority of the members of the Board or Committees 
as the case may be. Further, as informed and verified 
from minutes, no dissent was given by any director 
in respect of the resolutions passed in the Board and 
the Committee Meetings. 
	
Based on the compliance mechanism established by 
the Company, we further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company commensurate 
with the size and operations of the Company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
 
We further report that during the audit period the 
Company has not incurred any specific event / action 
that can have major bearing on the Company’s affairs 
in pursuance of above referred laws, rules, regulations; 
guidelines, standards etc subject to the following:
1.	
SEBI vide its letter dated 17.02.2022 has appointed 
Forensic Auditor to carry out forensic audit with 
respect to the financial statements of the Company 
in the context of disclosures of financial information 
and business transactions in terms of provisions of 
SEBI Act, SCRA Act, SEBI(Prohibition of Fraudulent 
and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities 
Market) Regulations 2003 and the provision of 
Section 24 of the Companies Act, 2013 or any other 
Rules or the Regulations made or directions issued 
by SEBI thereunder. The Company has provided 
necessary support and information to the Forensic 
Auditors and no further information has been sought 
after October 2022.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 49 
2.	
Mr. Sunil Goel, Ex-Joint Managing Director of the 
company had filed various applications under 
Section 241-242 of the Act against the Promoters & 
the Company, before the Hon’ble National Company 
Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chandigarh Bench and the 
said applications are pending as on date.
	
During the Audit Period, the Promoter/members of 
promoter group of the Company i.e. Mr. Rohtas Goel, 
Promoter & Chairman of the Company, and his brother 
Mr. Sunil Goel, M/s Sunil Goel HUF & Mrs. Seema 
Goel (SG Group) have entered into an understanding, 
subject to execution of relevant agreements etc, as 
may be required from time to time, for one-time full 
and final resolution of all/any disputes and differences 
among them (including but not limited to the disputes 
and differences related to shareholding, directorship, 
control, management, affairs and any other matters 
of like nature of Omaxe Group Companies and family 
matters); withdrawal/ quashing, as the case may be, and 
close all litigations filed against each-other and pending 
before any courts/ tribunals/ judicial & quasi-judicial 
authorities/ statutory authorities/ regulatory authorities/ 
financial institutions/ private institutions/ police and 
any other authority or body of a like nature; transfer of 
shareholding of SG Group in Omaxe Group Companies; 
and re-classification of SG Group from promoter and/or 
promoter group category of Omaxe Limited to “Public 
Category”, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions 
set out in Regulation 31A of SEBI LODR Regulations and 
other applicable laws and necessary approval(s).
FOR DMK ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
	
Sd/-
(MONIKA KOHLI)
FCS, I. P., LL.B., B. Com (H)
PARTNER 
FCS No. 5480
CP No. 4936
Peer Review No. 779/2020
Date : 08.08.2023
Place: New Delhi
UDIN : F005480E000765459
50 
Omaxe Limited
Annexure-A
To,
The Members,
M/s OMAXE LIMITED
CIN: L74899HR1989PLC051918 
SHOP NO-19-B, FIRST FLOOR OMAXE CELEBRATION MALL, 
SOHNA ROAD, GURUGRAM, HARYANA-122001 
Subject: Our report for the Audit Period is to be read along with this letter.
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these secretarial records based on our Audit.
2. 
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a 
reasonable basis our opinion.
3. 
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4. 
Wherever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules, and regulations 
and happening of events etc.
5.	
The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of the procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
7.	
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the remuneration paid to 
all the other directors is within the limits approved, however remuneration paid to the Chairman and Whole Time Director 
in view of losses is subject to confirmation/ ratification by the shareholders at ensuing Annual General Meeting. 
8.	
As per the information provided by the Company, there are no pending cases filed by or against the Company which will 
have major impact on the Company except as mentioned in the report. 
FOR DMK ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
	
Sd/-
(MONIKA KOHLI)
FCS, I. P., LL.B., B. Com (H)
PARTNER 
FCS No. 5480
CP No. 4936
Peer Review No. 779/2020
Date : 08.08.2023
Place: New Delhi
UDIN : F005480E000765459
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 51 
We have examined:
a.	
all the documents and records made available to us 
and explanation provided by OMAXE LIMITED(“the 
Listed Entity” -hereinafter called “the Company”) CIN: 
L74899HR1989PLC051918) having its Registered Office 
at Shop No-19-B, First Floor Omaxe Celebration Mall, 
Sohna Road Gurugram- 122001.
b.	
the filings/ submissions made by the Company to the 
stock exchanges,
c.	
website of the Company,
d.	
any other document/ filing, as may be relevant, which 
has been relied upon to make this certification for the 
financial year ended 31st March, 2023 (“Review Period”) 
in respect of compliance with the provisions of:
(a)	 the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (“SEBI Act”) and the Regulations, circulars, 
guidelines issued thereunder;and
(b)	 the 
Securities 
Contracts 
(Regulation) 
Act, 
1956 (“SCRAAct”), rules made thereunder and 
the 
Regulations, 
circulars, 
guidelines 
issued 
thereunder by the Securities and Exchange Board of 
India(“SEBI”);
	
The specific Regulations, whose provisions and the 
circulars/ guidelines issued thereunder, have been 
examined, include:-
(a)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations 
and 
Disclosure 
Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (herein after referred as “SEBI 
LODR”);
(b)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
(c)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Depositories 
and Participants) Regulations, 2018and circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder;
(d)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 
2011;
(e)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018; (Not applicable to the Company during the 
review period)
(f)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021(Not applicable to the Company 
during the review period)
(g)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback of 
Securities) Regulations, 2018; (Not applicable to the 
Company during the reviewperiod)
(h)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and 
Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the review period)
(i)	 Securities and Exchange Board of India(Issue 
and 
Listing 
of 
Non-Convertible 
Securities) 
Regulations,2021(Not applicable to the Company 
during the review period);   
 
and based on the above examination, We hereby report 
that, during the review Period: 
a)	
The Company has complied with the provisions of 
the above regulations and circulars/ guidelines 
issued thereunder.
b)	 The Company has taken the following actions to 
comply with the observations made in previous 
reports: Annexure A
c)	
Compliances related to resignation of statutory 
auditors from listed entities and their material 
subsidiaries as per SEBI Circular CIR/CFD/
CMD1/114/2019 dated 18th October, 2019;(Not 
Applicable, as there was no resignation of Statutory 
Auditors)
d)	 Pursuant to the NSE Circular No. NSE/CML/ 2023/21 
& BSE Circular no. 20230316-14  dated March 16, 
2023 read with NSE Circular No. NSE/CML/ 2023/30 
& BSE Circular no. 20230410-41 dated April 10, 
2023, we further affirm to the following:
ANNEXURE-IB
SECRETARIAL COMPLIANCE REPORT OF OMAXE LIMITED 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2023
[Pursuant to Regulation 24A of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 read with SEBI’s 
Circular No. CIR/CFD/CMD 1/27/2019 dated 8th February, 2019]
52 
Omaxe Limited
S.NO.
Particulars
Compliance Status 
(Yes / No/ NA)
Observations/ 
Remarks by PCS
1.
Secretarial Standard 
The compliances of listed entities are in accordance with the 
applicable Secretarial Standards (SS) issued by the Institute of 
Company Secretaries India (ICSI) 
YES
NIL
2
Adoption and timely updation of the Policies:
• 	 All applicable policies under SEBI Regulations are adopted 
with the approval of board of directors of the listed entities.
YES
NIL
• 	 All the policies are in conformity with SEBI Regulations and 
has been reviewed & timely updated as per the regulations/ 
circulars guidelines issued by SEBI.
YES
NIL
3.
Maintenance and disclosures on Website:
• 	 The Listed entity is maintaining a functional website.
YES
NIL
• 	 Timely dissemination of the documents/ information under a 
separate section on the website.
YES
NIL
•  Web-links provided in annual corporate governance reports 
under Regulation 27(2) are accurate and specific which 
redirects to the relevant document(s)/ section of the website.
YES
NIL
4.
Disqualification of Director 
None of the Director of the Company are disqualified under 
Section 164 of the Companies Act, 2013.
YES
NIL
5.
To examine details related to Subsidiaries of listed entities
• 
Identification of material subsidiary companies.
YES
NIL
• 
Requirement with respect to disclosure of material as well 
as other subsidiaries.
YES
NIL
6.
Preservation of Documents:
The listed entity is preserving and maintaining records as 
prescribed under SEBI Regulations and disposal of records as 
per Policy of Preservation of Documents and Archival policy 
prescribed under SEBI LODR Regulations, 2015
YES
NIL
7.
Performance Evaluation:
The listed entity has conducted performance evaluation of the 
Board, 
Independent Directors and the Committees at the start of every 
financial year as prescribed in SEBI Regulations.
YES
NIL
8.
Related Party Transactions:
• 
The Listed entity has obtained prior approval of Audit 
Committee for all Related party transaction
YES
NIL
• 
In case no prior approval obtained, the listed entity shall 
provide detailed reasons along with confirmation whether 
the transaction were subsequently approved/ ratified/ 
rejected by the Audit Committee
NA
All Related party 
transactions were 
entered after 
obtaining prior 
approval of the audit 
committee.
9.
DISCLOSURE OF EVENTS OR INFORMATION: 
The listed entity has provided all the required disclosure(s)under 
Regulation 30 alongwith Schedule III of SEBI LODR Regulations, 
2015 within the time limits prescribed thereunder
YES
NIL 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 53 
S.NO.
Particulars
Compliance Status 
(Yes / No/ NA)
Observations/ 
Remarks by PCS
10.
PROHIBITION OF INSIDER TRADING:
The listed entity is in compliance with Regulation 3(5) & 3(6) of 
SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015.
YES
NIL
11.
Actions taken by SEBI or Stock Exchange(s), if any
No Actions taken against the listed entity/ its promoters/directors/ 
subsidiaries either by SEBI or by Stock Exchanges(including 
under the Standard Operating Procedures issued by SEBI 
through various circulars) under SEBI Regulations and circulars/ 
guidelines issued thereunder"
YES
NIL
12.
Additional Non-compliances, if any:
No any additional non-compliance observed for all SEBI 
regulation/ circular/guidance note etc.
YES
NIL
	
Further, SEBI vide its letter dated 17.02.2022 has appointed Forensic Auditor to carry out forensic audit with respect to the 
financial statements of the Company in the context of disclosures of financial information and business transactions in 
terms of provisions of SEBI Act, SCRA Act, SEBI(Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to Securities 
Market) Regulations 2003 and the provision of Section 24 of the Companies Act, 2013 or any other Rules or the Regulations 
made or directions issued by SEBI thereunder. The Company provided necessary support and information to the Forensic 
Auditors and no further information sought after October 2022.
FOR DMK ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Date : 26.05.2023
Place: New Delhi
UDIN :F005480E000385046
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Sd/-
(MONIKA KOHLI)
FCS, I. P., LL.B., B. Com (H)
PARTNER 
FCS No. 5480
CP No. 4936
Peer Review No. 779/2020
54 
Omaxe Limited
Annexure A
Sr. No.
Compliance Requirement 
(Regulations/ circulars/ 
guidelines including 
specific clause)
Regulation/ 
Circular No.
Deviations
Action Taken 
by 
Type of Action i.e 
Advisory/
Clarification/
Fine/Show
Cause Notice/
Warning, etc.
Details of 
Violation
Fine Amount
(in Rs.)
Observations/ Remarks of the 
Practicing Company Secretary
Management 
Response
Remarks
1
The composition of board of 
directors of the listed entity 
shall be as follows:
(a) board of directors 
shall have an optimum 
combination of executive 
and non-executive directors 
with at least one woman 
director and not less than 
fifty per cent of the board of 
directors shall comprise of 
non-executive directors;
b) where the chairperson 
of the board of directors is 
a non-executive director, at 
least one-third of the board 
of directors shall comprise 
of independent directors 
and where the listed entity 
does not have a regular 
non-executive chairperson, 
at least half of the board of 
directors shall comprise of 
independent directors.
Regulation 17(1)
(a)&
(b) of SEBI LODR
The Company 
did not have 
the requisite 
number of 
Independent 
Directors on 
the Board of the 
company from 
01.10.2021 till 
30.01.2022.
BSE Limited
("BSE")
Fine levied
The composition 
of Board of 
Directors was not 
in accordance with 
the regulation 
17(1)(a) & (b) of 
SEBI LODR for 
a period of 92 
days, after the 
appointment of 
one Additional 
Director 
(Executive) w.e.f 
01.10.2021 on 
the Board who 
subsequently 
resigned from 
the Board w.e.f 
31.01.2022.
Total 
7,25,700/-
(inclucive of 
18% GST)
The composition of Board of 
Directors is in compliance with 
Regulation 17(1)(a) & (b) of SEBI 
LODR after the resignation of one 
Additional Director (Executive) 
w.e.f 31.01.2022.
BSE & NSE have imposed 
following fines in terms of SEBI 
Circular no. SEBI / HO/ CFD/ 
CMD/ PRIP/2020/12 dated 
22.01.2020:
1) Rs.5,42,800/- (inclusive of 
GST) each for a period of 92 
days i.e. from 01.10.2021 till 
31.12.2021.
2) Rs.1,82,900/- (inclusive of 
GST) each for a period of 31 
days i.e from 01.01.2022 till 
31.01.2022.
The fines 
imposed by the 
NSE & BSE have 
been duly paid.
NIL
National Stock 
Exchange of 
India Limited
("NSE")
Fine levied
Total 
7,25,700/-
(inclucive of 
18% GST)
2
The board of directors of the 
top 2000 listed entities shall 
comprise of not less than six 
directors
Regulation 17(1)( 
c) of SEBI LODR
As on April 1, 
2021 the total 
number of 
directors was 
five instead of 
six directors.
NA
NA
The composition 
of the Board has 
was affected due 
to resignation of 
Mr. D.K. Kambale 
from the position 
of Independent 
director on 
16.01.2021 
reducing the 
total number of 
directors on Board 
to five instead 
six. Further, the 
company has 
appointed Mr. Vinit 
Goyal as Director 
of the company 
w.e.f 12.04.2021.
NIL
The Board composition was 
not in compliance as on 
01.04.2021 due to resignation 
of Mr. D.K. Kambale from the 
position of Independent director 
on 16.01.2021. However the 
company has appointed Mr. Vinit 
Goyal as Director of the company 
w.e.f 12.04.2021.
No further action 
required to be 
taken by the 
Company
NIL
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 55 
To,
The Members,
OMAXE NEW CHANDIGARH DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
CIN: U00500DL2006PTC336617
10, Local Shopping Centre Kalkaji
New Delhi- 110019
We have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by OMAXE NEW CHANDIGARH 
DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED (hereinafter called “the 
Company”). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that 
provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate 
conducts/ statutory compliances and expressing our opinion 
thereon. 
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, we 
hereby report that in our opinion, the Company has, during 
the audit period covering the financial year ended on March 
31, 2023 (Audit Period) complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to 
the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter along with Annexure 1 attached to this report:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms 
and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company for the financial year ended on March 31, 2023 
according to the provisions of:
(i)	 The Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made 
thereunder(the Act); 
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder; (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period)
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period)
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment(FDI), Overseas Direct Investment(ODI) 
and External Commercial Borrowings(ECB); (No FDI and 
ECB was taken and no ODI was given by the Company 
during the Audit Period)
(v)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’), as amended from time to time:-
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015; ( Applicable only to the extent of 
Regulation 24 & 24A)
b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011(Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period);
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition 
of 
Insider 
Trading) 
Regulations, 
2015(Not applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period)*;
d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018(Not applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period);
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits & Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021, (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period);
ANNEXURE-IC
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31.03.2023
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
56 
Omaxe Limited
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008, 
(Not applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period);
g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and 
dealing with client(Not applicable as the Company 
is not registered as Registrar to an Issue and Share 
Transfer Agent);
h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021, (Not applicable 
to the Company during the Audit Period);and
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018, (Not applicable to 
the Company during the Audit Period);
	
* The Company being a material subsidiary of Omaxe 
Limited, directors and employees of the Company 
have been categorised as Designated Persons and are 
covered by the Code of Conduct under The Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015, of Omaxe Limited.
(vi)	 The Company has identified following laws applicable 
specifically to the Company and we have relied upon the 
representation made by the Company and its officers for 
the system and mechanism framed by the Company for 
compliances made under following laws:
a.	
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 
2016 and rules of the state(s) where project(s) were 
being undertaken.
b. 
 The Building and Other Construction Workers 
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of 
Service) Act, 1996.
c.	
The Land Acquisition Act, 1984.
d.	
Transfer of Property Act, 1882.
e.	
Indian Easements Act, 1882.
f.	
Registration Act, 1908.
 
We have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following: 
(i)	 Secretarial Standards on meeting of Board of 
Directors (SS-1) and on General Meeting (SS-2) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India. 
(ii)	 The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company 
with Stock Exchange(s), if applicable; (Not applicable 
to the Company during the Audit Period)
	
During the Audit Period the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
and Standards etc. as mentioned above.
	
Based on the information received and records 
maintained, we further report that;
1.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted. The changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors that took place during the period 
under review were carried out in compliance with 
the provisions of the Act.
2.	
Adequate notice of at least seven days (except few 
Board meetings which were held at shorter notice 
in compliance with the Act) was given to all directors 
to schedule the Board Meetings along with agenda 
and detailed notes on agenda and a system exists 
for seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting in compliance of the Act.
3.	
All decisions at Board Meetings are carried out 
unanimously and recorded in the minutes of the 
Board Meetings.  Further as informed,  no dissent 
was given by any director in respect of resolutions 
passed in the Board Meetings.
	
Based on the compliance mechanism established by 
the Company we further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company commensurate 
with the size and operations of the Company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
 
We further report that during the audit period the 
company has undertaken the following event/ action 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 57 
which may be construed as major in pursuance of above 
referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards 
etc.:
a)	
During the audit period, the Board of directors 
on January 20, 2023 have allotted 3000 unlisted, 
unrated, senior, secured, redeemable, transferrable, 
Non-Convertible 
Debentures 
(“NCDs”) 
of 
Rs. 1,00,000/- (Indian Rupees One Lakh Only) each 
on private placement basis aggregating to Rs. 
30,00,00,000/-( Rupees Thirty Crores only) pursuant 
to special resolution passed by the members at the 
Company’s Extra Ordinary General Meeting held 
on December 22, 2022 under sections 42, 62(3), 71 
and 180 of the Act to issue NCDs to the Debenture 
Holders and on terms and conditions as defined in 
the Debenture Trust Deed(“DTD”) executed inter-alia 
between Catalyst Trusteeship Limited(“Debenture 
Trustee”) and the Company. Further, a special 
resolution was also passed by the Members of the 
Company at the Extra Ordinary General Meeting 
held on December 28, 2022 to amend the Articles of 
Association of the Company for inclusion of certain 
provisions of aforesaid mentioned DTD.
Thanks & Regards
Date	
: 24.05.2023
Place	
: New Delhi
UDIN No.:A065026E00038752 	
Sd/- 
CS ANKIT TIWARI
Practicing Company Secretary
ACS, MBA, B. Com.
ACS No.: 65026
C. P. No.: 24431
	
Peer Review No.: 2153/2022
58 
Omaxe Limited
Annexure 1
To,
The Members,
OMAXE NEW CHANDIGARH DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
CIN: U00500DL2006PTC336617
10, Local Shopping Centre, Kalkaji, New Delhi- 110019	
Sub: Our Report for audit period is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our Audit.
2. 
We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the 
correctness of the contents of the secretarial records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a 
reasonable basis our opinion.
3. 
We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4. 
Wherever required, we have obtained Management Representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations 
and happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of the management. Our examination was limited to the verification of the procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
7.	
As per the information provided by the Company, there are no pending cases filed by or against the Company which will 
have major impact on the Company.
Thanks & Regards
Date	
: 24.05.2023
Place	
: New Delhi
UDIN No.:A065026E00038752 	
Sd/- 
CS ANKIT TIWARI
Practicing Company Secretary
ACS, MBA, B. Com.
ACS No.: 65026
C. P. No.: 24431
	
Peer Review No.: 2153/2022
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 59 
To,
The Members,
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
CIN: U70109DL2006PLC151613
10, Local Shopping Centre Kalkaji 
New Delhi- 110019	
I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to 
good corporate practices by OMAXE BUILDHOME LIMITED 
(hereinafter called “the Company”). Secretarial Audit was 
conducted in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis 
for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances 
and expressing my opinion thereon. 
Based on my verification of the Company’s books, papers, 
minute books, forms and returns filed and other records 
maintained by the Company and also the information 
provided by the Company, its officers, agents and authorized 
representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, I 
hereby report that in my opinion, the Company has, during 
the audit period covering the financial year ended on March 
31, 2023 (Audit Period) complied with the statutory provisions 
listed hereunder and also that the Company has proper 
Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place to 
the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter along with Annexure 1 attached to this report:
I have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company 
for the financial year ended on March 31, 2023 according to 
the provisions of:
(i)	 The Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder 
(the Act); 
(ii)	 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder; (Not applicable to the 
Company during the Audit Period)
(iii)	 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder; (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period)
(iv)	 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment(FDI), Overseas Direct Investment(ODI) 
and External Commercial Borrowings(ECB); (No FDI and 
ECB was taken and no ODI was given by the Company 
during the Audit Period)
(v)	 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed 
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 
1992 (‘SEBI Act’), as amended from time to time:-
a)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015;( Applicable only to the extent of 
Regulation 24 & 24A)
b)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) 
Regulations, 2011 (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period);
c)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015 
(Not applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period)*;
d)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 (Not applicable to the Company during the 
Audit Period);
e)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Share Based Employee Benefits & Sweat Equity) 
Regulations, 2021, (Not applicable to the Company 
during the Audit Period);
f)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
ANNEXURE-ID
FORM NO. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31.03.2023
[Pursuant to Section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule No.9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and Regulation 24A of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015]
60 
Omaxe Limited
and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008, 
(Not applicable to the Company during the Audit 
Period);
g)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India 
(Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) 
Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and 
dealing with client (Not applicable as the Company 
is not registered as Registrar to an Issue and Share 
Transfer Agent);
h)	 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021, (Not applicable 
to the Company during the Audit Period);and
i)	
The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018, (Not applicable to 
the Company during the Audit Period);
	
* The Company being a material subsidiary of Omaxe 
Limited, directors and employees of the Company 
have been categorised as Designated Persons and are 
covered by the Code of Conduct under The Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) 
Regulations, 2015, of Omaxe Limited.
(vi)	 The Company has identified following laws applicable 
specifically to the Company and I have relied upon the 
representation made by the Company and its officers for 
the system and mechanism framed by the Company for 
compliances made under following laws:
a.	
The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 
2016 and rules of the state(s) where project(s) are 
being undertaken.
b. 
The Building and Other Construction Workers 
(Regulation of Employment and Conditions of 
Service) Act, 1996.
c.	
The Land Acquisition Act, 1984.
d.	
Transfer of Property Act, 1882.
e.	
Indian Easements Act, 1882.
f.	
Registration Act, 1908
	
I have also examined compliance with the applicable 
clauses of the following: 
(i)	 Secretarial Standards on meeting of Board of 
Directors (SS-1) and on General Meeting (SS-2) 
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of 
India. 
(ii)	 	The Listing Agreements entered into by the 
Company with Stock Exchange(s), if applicable; (Not 
applicable to the Company during the Audit Period)
	
During the Audit Period the Company has complied with 
the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
and Standards etc. as mentioned above.
	
Based on the information received and records 
maintained, I further report that;
1.	
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly 
constituted. There was no change in the composition 
of the Board of Directors, during the audit period.
2.	
Adequate notice of at least seven days (except few 
Board meetings which are held at shorter notice in 
compliance with the Act) was given to all directors 
to schedule the Board Meetings along with agenda 
and detailed notes on agenda and a system exists 
for seeking and obtaining further information 
and clarifications on the agenda items before the 
meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting in compliance of the Act.
3.	
All decisions at Board Meetings are carried out 
unanimously and recorded in the minutes of the 
Board Meetings.  Further as informed,  no dissent 
was given by any director in respect of resolutions 
passed in the Board Meetings.
	
Based on the compliance mechanism established by 
the Company I further report that there are adequate 
systems and processes in the Company commensurate 
with the size and operations of the Company to monitor 
and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
	
I further report that during the audit period the company 
has undertaken the following event / action which may 
be construed as major in pursuance of above referred 
laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards etc. :
a)	
Special Resolution was passed by members of the 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 61 
Company in their Extra Ordinary General Meeting 
held on April 07, 2022 under section 185 of the 
Act, to provide corporate guarantee or security, 
in aggregate to Omaxe Heritage Private Limited 
(“Borrower”) for issuance of secured Non – 
Convertible Debentures(“NCDs”) to Credit Solutions 
India Trust by borrower.
b)	 Special Resolution was passed by members of the 
Company in their Extra Ordinary General Meeting 
held on April 11, 2022 for:
• 
Execution of a share pledge agreement between 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited, Omaxe Limited 
(both Omaxe Buildhome Limited and Omaxe 
Limited hereinafter referred as (“Pledgors”), 
the Borrower and Vistra ITCL (India) Limited 
(“Debenture Trustee”) for creation of pledge 
w.r.t 50,000 equity shares of the Borrower held 
by the Pledgors, representing in aggregate 
100% of the issued, subscribed & paid-up share 
capital of the Borrower on a fully diluted basis 
in favour of the Debenture Trustee for securing 
NCD issued by the Borrower.; 
• 
Execution of a Guarantee Deed in favour of 
Debenture Trustee to inter-alia irrevocably 
and unconditionally guarantee and secure the 
payment of the redemption amounts in respect 
of the NCDs issued by the Borrower. 
 
Thanks & Regards
Date	
: 24.05.2023
Place	
: New Delhi
UDIN No.: A065026E000387447 	
Sd/-
CS ANKIT TIWARI
Practicing Company Secretary
ACS, MBA, B. Com.
ACS No.: 65026
C. P. No.: 24431
Peer Review No.: 2153/2022
62 
Omaxe Limited
Annexure 1
To,
The Members,
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
CIN: U70109DL2006PLC151613
10, Local Shopping Centre Kalkaji 
New Delhi- 110019
Sub: My report for audit period is to be read along with this letter:
1.	
Maintenance of secretarial records is the responsibility of the management of the Company. My responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these secretarial records based on my Audit.
2.	
I have followed the audit practices and processes as are appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness 
of the contents of the secretarial records. I believe that the processes and practices, I followed provide a reasonable basis 
my opinion.
3.	
I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4. 
Wherever required, I have obtained Management Representation about the compliance of laws, rules, and regulations and 
happening of events etc.
5.	
The compliance of the provisions of corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility 
of the management. My examination was limited to the verification of the procedures on test basis.
6.	
The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
7.	
As per the information provided by the Company, there are no pending cases filed by or against the Company which will 
have major impact on the Company.
Thanks & Regards
Date	
: 24.05.2023
Place	
: New Delhi
UDIN No.: A065026E000387447 	
Sd/-
CS ANKIT TIWARI
Practicing Company Secretary
ACS, MBA, B. Com.
ACS No.: 65026
C. P. No.: 24431
Peer Review No.: 2153/2022
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 63 
ANNEXURE-II
Annual Report on Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) FOR FY 2022-23
(Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013)
1.	
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company: Omaxe Ltd. (“the Company”) recognizes that its business activities have 
wide impact on the societies in which it operates, and therefore an effective practice is required giving due consideration 
to the interests of its stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, business partners, local 
communities and other organizations. The Company endeavors to make CSR a key business process for sustainable 
development. The Company is responsible to continuously enhance shareholders wealth; it is also committed to its other 
stakeholders to conduct its business in an accountable manner that creates a sustained positive impact on society and 
to practice its corporate values through its commitment to grow in a socially and environmentally responsible way, while 
meeting the interests of its stakeholders. The company is vigilant in its enforcement towards corporate principles and 
is committed towards sustainable development and inclusive growth. The Company constantly strives to ensure strong 
corporate culture which emphasizes on integrating CSR values with business objective. It also pursues initiatives related 
to quality management, environment preservation and social awareness. The Policy can be accessed on the Company’s 
website under the below link: https://www.omaxe.com/investor/other-codes-policies
2.	
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl.
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the Year
Number of meetings 
of CSR Committee 
attended during the 
year
1
Ms. Nishal Jain
Chairperson
Non-Executive & Woman 
Independent Director
1
1
2
Mr. Shridhar Rao
Member
Non-Executive & Independent 
Director
1
1
3
Mr. Vinit Goyal
Member
Whole Time Director
1
1
3. 	 Web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the board are disclosed on 
the website of the Company: https://www.omaxe.com/investor/other-codes-policies
4.	
Details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies 
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report): Not Applicable
5.	
Details of the amount available for set off in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 7 of the Companies (Corporate Social 
Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set off for the financial year, if any:
Sl. No.
Financial Year
Amount available for set-off 
from preceding financial years 
(in Rs. Lakh)
Amount required to be set-
off for the financial year, if any  
(in Rs. Lakh)
1
2021-22
40.74*
0.00
TOTAL
40.74
0.00
	
* The aforementioned amount is available for set-off till Financial Year 2024-25.
6.	
Average Net Profit of the Company as per section 135(5): NIL
7.	
(a) 	 Two percent of Average Net Profit of the Company as per section 135(5): NIL, as the Company has average Net 
Loss.
64 
Omaxe Limited
(b)	 Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years: NIL
(c)	 Amount required to be set off for the financial year if any: NIL
(d)	 Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c): NIL
8.	
(a) 	 CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year: Not Applicable
Total Amount Spent for 
the Financial Year
(in Rs. Lakh)
Amount Unspent (in Rs. Lakh)
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per section 135(6)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as per 
second proviso to section 135(5)
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
-
-
-
-
-
-
(b) 	 Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year: Not Applicable
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
(11)
Sl.
No.
Name of the 
Project
Item from 
the List of 
activities 
in Sched- 
ule VII to 
the Act.
Local area 
(Yes/No)
Location of the 
Project
Project 
Dura- 
tion
Amount 
allocated 
for the 
project (in 
Rs. Lakh)
Amount spent 
in The current 
financial Year (in 
Rs. Lakh)
Amount 
Transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account for the 
project as per 
Section 135(6) (in 
Rs. Lakh)
Mode of 
Implementa- 
tion -
Direct (Yes/
No).
Mode of Implementation 
- Through Implementing 
Agency
State
District
Name
CSR Reg-
istration 
number.
1.
Not Applicable
(c) 	 Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year: Not Applicable
Sl. 
No.
Name of 
the Project
Item from the 
list of activities 
in schedule VII 
to the Act.
Local area 
(Yes/ No).
Location of the project.
Amount 
spent for the 
project
(in Rs.).
Mode of 
implementation 
- Direct (Yes/
No).
Mode of implementation 
– Through implementing 
agency.
State
District
Name.
CSR 
registration 
number.
Not Applicable
(d)	 Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: Not Applicable.
(e)	 Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: Not applicable
(f)	 Total amount spent for the Financial Year (8b+8c+8d+8e): Nil
(g)	 Excess amount for set off, if any:
Sl. No.
Particular
Amount (in Rs. Lakh)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per 
section 135(5)
0.000
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
0.000
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the financial year [(ii)-(i)]
0.000
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or 
activities of the previous financial years, if any
0.000
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years 
[(iii)-(iv)]
0.000
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 65 
9.	
(a)	 Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years: NIL
Sl.
No.
Preceding 
Financial Year
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
section 135 (6) 
(in Rs. Lakh)
Amount spent in 
the Reporting FY 
(in Rs. Lakh)
Amount transferred to any fund specified under 
Schedule VII as per section 135(6), if Any
Amount remaining to 
be spent in succeeding 
financial years
 (in Rs. Lakh)
Name of 
the Fund
Amount 
(in Rs. Lakh)
Date of transfer
1.
Not Applicable
(b)	 Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s): Not 
Applicable
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Sl.
No.
Project
ID.
Name of the 
Project
Financial Year 
in which the 
project was 
Commenced
Project 
duration
Total 
amount 
allocated
For the 
project (in 
Rs. Lakh)
Amount 
spent on the 
Project in 
the reporting 
Financial Year 
(in Rs. Lakh)
Cumulative amount 
spent at the end of 
reporting Financial 
Year (in Rs. Lakh)
Status of the 
project- Completed
/Ongoing
1.
Not Applicable
10.	 In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through 
CSR spent in the financial year- Not Applicable
	
(Asset-wise details).
a)
Date of creation or acquisition of the capital asset(s).
Not Applicable
b)
Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset.
c)
Details of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name 
such capital asset is registered, their address etc.
d)
Provide details of the capital asset(s) created or acquired (including 
complete address and location of the capital asset).
11.	 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5): Not 
Applicable
Sd/-
Rohtas Goel
Chairman & Non-Executive Director
Sd/-
Nishal Jain
Chairperson - CSR Committee
	
66 
Omaxe Limited
Section A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I.	
Details of the listed entity
1.	
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity: L74899HR1989PLC051918
2.	
Name of the Listed Entity: Omaxe Limited
3.	
Year of incorporation: 1989
4.	
Registered  office  address:  19-B, First Floor Omaxe Celebration Mall, Sohna Road, Gurugram, Haryana -122001 
5.	
Corporate address: 7, Local Shopping Complex, Kalkaji, New Delhi- 110019
6.	
E-mail: secretarial_1@omaxe.com
7.	
Telephone: 011-41896680-85
8.	
Website: www.omaxe.com
9.	
Financial Year (FY) for which reporting is being done: 2022-23
10.	 Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed: BSE Limited (BSE), National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
(NSE)
11.	 Paid-up Capital: Rs. 1,82,90,05,400/-
12.	 Name and contact details (telephone, e-mail address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries 
on the BRSR report:
	
Name: Mr. Vikas Khandelwal
	
Designation: Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
	
Telephone: 011-41896680-85; E-mail Id: secretarial_1@omaxe.com
13.	 Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made on a standalone basis (i.e. only for the entity) 
or on a consolidated basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its consolidated financial 
statements, taken together).
	
	
The disclosures under this report are made on a standalone basis.
II.	 Products/ Services
14.	 Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the entity’s turnover):
S. No.
Description of Main Activity
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of the entity
1
Real Estate
Real Estate Activities with own or 
leased property
93.38%
15.	 Products/ Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. No.
Product/ Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Real Estate Projects
681
93.38%
ANNEXURE-III
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 67 
III.	 Operations
16.	 Number of locations where plants and/ or operations/ offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
Not applicable
29*
29*
International
Not applicable
0
0
	
*Cities in which the Company currently operates and has its projects.
17.	 Markets served by the entity:
a.	
Number of locations
Locations
Number
National (No. of States)
8*
International (No. of Countries)
Nil
	
*States in which the Company currently operates and has its projects.
b.	
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
	
Not Applicable
c.	
A brief on types of customers
	
Omaxe is one of the leading real estate companies in North India that has been contributing to sustainable 
infrastructure with its diverse portfolio which includes residential, commercial and retail projects that cater the 
needs of businesses as well as individual customers. Omaxe’s real estate portfolio comprises of the following:
i.	
Residential including housing projects, integrated township, residential plots that serve residential 
customers;
ii.	
Commercial   and Retail  including malls, shopping complexes, plots and recreational spaces.
IV.	 Employees
18.	 Details as at the end of FY:
a.	
Employees and Workers (including differently abled):
S.No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
473
429
90.70%
44
9.30%
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
0
0
0
0
0
3.
Total employees (D+E)
473
429
90.70%
44
9.30%
WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
0
0
0
         0
0
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
533
450
84.42%
83
15.58%
6.
Total workers (F+G)
533
450
84.42%
83
15.58%
68 
Omaxe Limited
b.	
Differently abled Employees and Workers:
S.No.
Particulars
Total (A)
Male
Female
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
No. (C)
% (C/ A)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED EMPLOYEES
1.
Permanent (D)
0
2.
Other than Permanent (E)
3.
Total differently abled 
employees (D+E)
DIFFERENTLY ABLED WORKERS
4.
Permanent (F)
0
5.
Other than Permanent (G)
6.
Total differently abled workers 
(F+G)
19.	 Participation/ Inclusion/ Representation of women
Total (A)
No. and percentage of Females
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
Board of Directors
6
1
16.67%
Key Managerial Personnel
3
0
0.00%
20.	 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2020-21
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
1.42%
-2.22%
1.07%
-36.30
-48.28%
-37.68
-17.10%
0.00%
-15.43%
Permanent Workers
There are no permanent workers in Omaxe Limited
	
Note: The turnover rate of permanent employees is based on the number of permanent employees on the payroll of 
Omaxe Limited as at the year end dates.
V.	
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21.	 (a) 	 Names of holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ joint ventures
S. No.
Name of the holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ 
joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity?
(Yes/ No)
1. 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
63.57
No
Such entities are separate legal entities, hence 
they follow BR Initiatives as per laws as may 
applicable to them.
2. 
Anjaniputra Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
3. 
Aashna Realcon Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
4. 
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
5. 
Arman Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
6. 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
7. 
Blackbull Retails Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
8. 
Chapal Buildhome Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
9. 
Colors Real Estate Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
10. 
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
11. 
Dreamze New Faridabad Developers LLP
Subsidiary
99.99 
12. 
Ekansh Buildtech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 69 
S. No.
Name of the holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ 
joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity?
(Yes/ No)
13. 
Giant Dragon Mart Private Limited
Joint Venture
50.00 
No
Such entities are separate legal entities, hence they follow BR Initiatives as per laws as may applicable to them.
14. 
Golden Glades Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
15. 
Green Planet Colonisers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
16. 
Hamara Ghar Constructions and Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
17. 
Hartal Builders and Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
75.00 
18. 
Jagdamba Contractors and Builders Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
19. 
JKB Constructions Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
20. 
JRS Projects Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
21. 
Kamini Builders and Promoters Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
22. 
Kashish Buildtech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
23. 
Kavya Buildtech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
24. 
Landlord Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
25. 
Link Infrastructure and Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
26. 
Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
27. 
Mehboob Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
28. 
Mehtab Infratech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
29. 
Monarch Villas Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
30. 
MR Real Estate Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
31. 
National Affordable Housing Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
32. 
Navratan Techbuild Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
33. 
Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
34. 
Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
35. 
Nexten Infra Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
36. 
Nexten Real Growth Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
37. 
Nexten Super Growth Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
38. 
Oasis Township Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
39. 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
40. 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
41. 
Omaxe Entertainment Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
42. 
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills Developers Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
43. 
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
44. 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
45. 
Omaxe Hitech Infrastructure Company Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
46. 
Omaxe Housing and Developers Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
47. 
Omaxe Housing And Infrastructure Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
48. 
Omaxe Indore Developers Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
49. 
Omaxe Infotech City Developers Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
50. 
Omaxe Infrastructure Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
51. 
Omaxe International Bazaar Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
52. 
Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
53. 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
70 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Name of the holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ 
joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity?
(Yes/ No)
54. 
Omaxe New Faridabad Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
No
Such entities are separate legal entities, hence they follow BR Initiatives as per laws as may applicable to them.
55. 
Omaxe Next Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
56. 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
57. 
Omaxe Power Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
58. 
Omaxe Rajasthan SEZ Developers Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
59. 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Subsidiary
75.00 
60. 
Omtech Infrastructure and Construction Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
61. 
Pam Developers (India) Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
62. 
Panchi Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
63. 
PP Devcon Private Limited
Subsidiary
75.00 
64. 
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
65. 
Rivaj Infratech Private Limited
Subsidiary
51.00 
66. 
Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
67. 
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
68. 
Sarva Buildtech Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
69. 
Shamba Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
70. 
Shikhar Landcon Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
71. 
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP 
Subsidiary
99.99 
72. 
Sri Balaji Green Heights Private Limited
Subsidiary
75.00 
73. 
Worldstreet Sports Centre Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
74. 
Zodiac Housing and Infrastructure Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
75. 
Aadhira Developers Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
76. 
Ashray Infrabuild Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
77. 
Ayush Landcon Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
78. 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
79. 
Caspian Realtors Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
80. 
Daman Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
81. 
Damodar Infratech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
82. 
Davesh Technobuild Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
83. 
Dinkar Realcon Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
84. 
Ekapad Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
85. 
Hemang Buildcon Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
86. 
Hiresh Builders Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
87. 
Manit Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
88. 
NRI City Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
89. 
Rupesh Infratech Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
90. 
Sanvim Developers Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
91. 
Shubh Bhumi Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
92. 
Silver Peak Township Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
93. 
Aarzoo Technobuild Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
94. 
Abheek Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 71 
S. No.
Name of the holding/ subsidiary/ associate companies/ 
joint ventures (A)
Indicate whether 
Holding/ Subsidiary/ 
Associate/ Joint 
Venture
% of shares 
held by 
listed entity
Does the entity indicated 
at column A, participate in 
the Business Responsibility 
initiatives of the listed 
entity?
(Yes/ No)
95. 
Radiance Housing and Properties Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00
No
Such entities are separate legal entities, hence they follow BR Initiatives as per laws as may applicable to 
them.
96. 
Ashok Infrabuild Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
97. 
Glacier Agro Foods Products Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
98. 
Tejpal Infra Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
99. 
S N Realtors Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00
100. 
Oasis Suncity Realtors Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
101. 
Reliable Manpower Solutions Limited
Subsidiary
99.18 
102. 
RPS Suncity Promoters and Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
103. 
Satvik Hitech Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00
104. 
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private Limited
Subsidiary
90.00
105. 
Aviral Colonizers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
106. 
Satkar Colonisers Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
107. 
Utkrisht Real Estate and Associates Private Limited
Subsidiary
100.00 
108. 
Abhas Realcon Private Limited
Subsidiary
75.00 
109. 
Adesh Realcon Private Limited
Subsidiary
75.00 
110. 
Anveshan Builders Private Limited
Subsidiary
75.00 
111. 
Navadip Developers Private Limited
Subsidiary
75.00 
112. 
Salvatore Infra Buildtech Limited 
Subsidiary
75.00 
113. 
Estatelance Developers Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00
114. 
Estatelance Real Estate Private Limited 
Subsidiary
100.00 
115. 
Capital Redevelopment Private Limited
Associate
24.00 
116. 
FBD Real Grow Private Limited
Associate
25.00 
117. 
Omaxe Be Together Project Developers Private Limited 
(Formerly known as Be Together Vrindavan Developers 
Private Limited)
Associate
30.00 
118. 
Parkash Omaxe Amusement Park Private Limited 
Joint Venture
50.00
VI.	 CSR Details
22.	 Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Y/ N): No
(i) 	 Turnover: 459.39 Cr.
(ii) 	 Net worth: - 1014.40 Cr.
72 
Omaxe Limited
VII.	 Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23.	 Complaints/ Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible 
Business Conduct (NGRBC):
Stakeholder 
group from 
whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance Redressal 
Mechanism in Place
(Y/ N) (If yes, then 
provide web-link for 
grievance redress 
policy)
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
filed during 
the year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution 
at close of 
the year
Remarks
Communities
Yes. The contact details 
for grievance redressal 
are available at https://
www.omaxe.com/
investor/address-for-
grievance-redressal-
and-other-details.
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Investors 
(other than 
shareholders)
Yes. The contact details 
for grievance redressal 
are available at https://
www.omaxe.com/
investor/address-for-
grievance-redressal-
and-other-details.
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Shareholders
Yes. The contact 
details for grievance 
redressal are available 
at https://www.omaxe.
com/investor/contact-
information-of-the-
designated-officicals.
3
NIL
Complaints 
pertained 
to matters 
including 
payment of 
unclaimed 
dividend, 
request 
for Annual 
Report etc. 
and were 
promptly 
resolved.
3
NIL
Complaints 
pertained 
to matters 
including 
payment of 
unclaimed 
dividend, 
request 
for Annual 
Report etc. 
and were 
promptly 
resolved.
Employees and 
Workers
Yes. Grievance
redressal mechanisms
are available in intranet
as per the Company’s
HR policy.
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Customers
Yes. Grievance
redressal mechanisms
are available
168
56
NIL
127
67
NIL
Value Chain 
Partners
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
NIL
Others (Please 
Specify) 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 73 
24.	 Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
	
Indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social 
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to 
adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format:
S. No.
Material issue 
identified
Indicate 
whether risk 
or opportunity 
(R/ O)
Rationale for 
identifying the risk/ 
opportunity
In case of 
risk, approach 
to adapt or 
mitigate
Financial implications 
of the risk or 
opportunity (Indicate 
positive or negative 
implications)
1
Regulatory 
Compliance
Risk
Refer to Point 1 
below
Refer to Point 
1 below
Negative
2
Physical Impacts of 
Climate Change
Risk
Refer to Point 2 
below
Refer to Point 
2 below
Negative
3
Health and Safety
Risk
Refer to Point 3 
below
Refer to Point 
3 below
Negative
4
Water and Wastewater 
Management
Risk
Refer to Point 4 
below
Refer to Point 
4 below
Negative
5
Energy Efficiency
Risk
Refer to Point 5 
below
Refer to Point 
5 below
Negative
1.	
Regulatory Compliance
	
Risk:
	
Failure to comply with rapidly changing regulatory requirements can result in adverse impact for the Company and 
erode stakeholders’ trust. Evolving environmental and social regulations present a risk of potential non-compliance 
which, if not met, can result in fines, penalties and adverse impact on brand reputation.
	
Mitigation Measures:
	
Omaxe is committed to promote a culture of compliance within the organization supported by a zero-tolerance 
policy and has a robust set of environmental, social and governance related policies in place. At Omaxe, compliance 
related risks are reviewed at regular intervals and procedures and practices constantly evolve to fulfil compliance 
requirements based on extant rulings and changing market conditions.
2.	
Physical Impacts of Climate Change
	
Risk:
	
Increased severity of extreme weather events including natural disasters, rising mean temperatures and sea levels 
pose a risk of damage to real estate portfolio. It can result in adverse impacts in future in the form of costs to repair 
and replace damaged assets in case of any natural disasters and subsequent property downtime.
	
Mitigation Measures: 
	
As part of its mitigation strategy, Omaxe maps physical risks for its current portfolio and future development projects, 
followed by incorporation of physical adaptation and mitigation measures for assets that are identified at risk. 
3.	
Health and Safety
	
Risk:
	
Omaxe is engaged in construction of buildings and management of a significant portfolio of real estate assets. Owing 
to the nature of the operations, health and safety is identified as a potential risk for business. Ensuring the safety of 
74 
Omaxe Limited
its employees, contractors and the local communities surrounding project sites is its top-most priority. Further, it is a 
constant endeavor to provide safe and secured facilities to all customers.
	
Mitigation Measures:
• 
Health and safety is one of the key priorities for Omaxe. Safety, Health and well-being programmes and trainings 
are organized for workforce.
4.	
Water and Wastewater Management
	
Risk:
	
A growing population and irregular monsoons have resulted in water becoming an increasingly scarce resource. 
Many Indian cities have been designated as ‘critical’ or ‘over-exploited’ under national groundwater assessment. 
Thus, efficient water management through conservation and reuse is prime focus for OMAXE to ensure its business 
sustainability, optimize operational costs as well promote sustainable communities around Omaxe properties and 
townships.
	
Mitigation Measures:
· 
Water recycling measures have been implemented across all projects to reduce freshwater drawal. Rainwater 
harvesting is practiced in all managed properties to recharge groundwater;
·	
Other measures include installation of high efficiency fixtures, sensor based low-flow water taps and leak detection 
systems in washrooms and drip irrigation in gardens, which has helped promote water conservation.
5.	
Energy Efficiency
	
Risk:
	
India has witnessed a rapid growth in green infrastructure driven by Government led policies, incentives and targeted 
initiatives. Similar trends are observed with several international standards, showing inclination towards sustainable 
urban infrastructure and energy efficient buildings. Therefore, promotion of energy efficient buildings is a priority. 
	
Mitigation Measures:
• 
Omaxe undertakes various measures to reduce the carbon footprint of its portfolio through energy efficiency 
measures and adoption of renewable energy to stay ahead of climate-related policy changes, tap into the lucrative 
green infrastructure market and maintain a competitive edge.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 75 
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting 
the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and 
Accountable.
P 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe.
P 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains.
P 4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders.
P 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
P 6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment.
P 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent.
P 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development.
P 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.
Disclosure Questions
P1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Policy and Management Processes
1.	 a. Whether your entity’s policy/ policies 
cover each principle 
and its core 
elements of the NGRBCs. [Yes/ No (Y/ 
N)].
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
b. 	 Has the policy been approved by the 
Board? (Y/ N).
Wherever necessary, the policies were placed before the Board and 
requisite approvals were obtained.
c.  Web Link of the Policies, if available.
Internal policies are available for employees only. For other policies.
Please refer to the link: https://www.omaxe.com/investor
2.	 Whether the entity has translated the 
policy into procedures (Y/ N)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
3.	 Do the enlisted policies extend to your 
value chain partners? (Y/ N).
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
4.	 Name of the national and international 
codes/ certifications/ labels/ standards 
adopted by your entity and mapped to 
each principle.
Not Applicable
5.	 Specific commitments, goals and targets 
set by the entity with defined timelines, 
if any.
We are in the process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability 
standards and setting the goals and targets in line with the NGRBC/ 
GRI framework.
6.	 Performance of the entity against the 
specific commitments, goals and targets 
along-with reasons in case the same are 
not met.
We are in the process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability 
standards and setting the goals and targets in line with the NGRBC/ 
GRI framework.
76 
Omaxe Limited
GOVERNANCE, LEADERSHIP AND OVERSIGHT
7.	
Statement by director responsible for the 
business responsibility report, highlighting 
ESG related challenges, targets and 
achievements (listed entity has flexibility 
regarding the placement of this disclosure).
Omaxe is committed to make the business sustainable and socially 
responsible. We prioritize the conservation of natural resources and 
improving operational efficiencies to minimize our environmental 
footprint. We aim to build resilience in our business and among our 
stakeholders and we monitor our activities and their environmental 
and social impacts to ensure that we create value for all stakeholders.
8.	 Details 
of 
the 
highest 
authority 
responsible for implementation and 
oversight of the Business Responsibility 
Policy (ies).
Board of Directors supported by the Managing Director who briefs the 
Board on subject matter periodically.
9.	 Does the entity have a specified 
Committee of the Board/ Director 
responsible for decision making on 
sustainability related issues? (Y/ N). If 
yes, provide details.
No. However, the respective areas of the ESG matters are monitored 
by the identified individual namely the Departmental Heads of the 
respective departments and they periodically update/confirm to the 
Board.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review
Indicate whether review was undertaken by 
Director/ Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Frequency
(Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/ Any other)
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 7
P 8
P 9
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
Performance against 
above policies and 
follow up action
Director
Quarterly & Annually
Compliance 
with statutory 
requirements of 
relevance to the 
principles and 
rectification of any 
non-compliances
Director
Quarterly & Annually
11. Has the entity carried out independent 
assessment/ evaluation of the working of its 
policies by an external agency? (Y/ N). If yes, 
provide name of the agency.
P 1
P 2
P 3
P4
P5
P6
P 7
P 8
P 9
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated: Not 
applicable
Questions
P 1
P 2
P 3
P 4
P 5
P 6
P 7
P 8
P 9
The entity does not consider the Principles 
material to its business (Y/ N)
Not Applicable
The entity is not at a stage where it is in a position 
to formulate and implement the policies on 
specified principles (Y/ N)
The entity does not have the financial or/ human 
and technical resources available for the task (Y/ 
N)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year 
(Y/ N)
Any other reason
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 77 
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent 
and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the FY 2022-23:
Segment
Total number 
of training and 
awareness 
programmes 
held
Topics/ principles covered under the training and its impact
% age of persons 
in respective 
category covered 
by The awareness 
programmes
Board of 
Directors 
(BoDs)
One
Directors of the Company, at the time of their appointment, 
are familiarized on the Company’s Core Values, Code of 
Conduct, including the purpose and the business it operates 
and social responsibilities. At each meeting of the Board/
Audit Committee, members also deliberate on key regulatory 
matters that helps to reflect and focus on key strategies. As a 
part of Board, Audit and CSR agenda, members also discuss 
various sustainable and Governance initiatives of the Company, 
including regulatory and economic trends. Key Regulatory 
changes, amendments etc. are circulated regularly. Business, 
strategy, risk assessment, mitigation etc., are also covered on 
periodical basis.
100%
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel 
(KMPs)
One 
Topics pertaining to Key Regulatory issues, recent regulatory 
updates and amendments etc. are circulated regularly. The 
Code of Conduct is also familiarized, which helps the KMP’s 
to drive the Company’s values and purpose in all key business 
activities.
100%
Employees 
other than 
BoDs & 
KMPs
One
Topics pertaining to Omaxe Code of Conduct, Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment at Workplace, Health, Safety, Security 
and Environment. Environment Management, Awareness on 
Standard Operating Procedures for safety and Safety Hazard 
Identification and Risk Assessment.
100%
Workers
One
Topics pertaining to Labour Laws, Fire Safety Training, Health 
& Security, Awareness on Standard Operating Procedures for 
safety and Safety Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment 
etc.
100%
2.	
Details of fines/ penalties/ punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the 
entity or by Directors/ KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the FY, in the following 
format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary
Category
NGRBC 
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement
agencies/ judicial institutions
Amount (In INR)
Brief of the Case
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
-
Nil
Not Applicable
Settlement
Nil
-
Nil
Not Applicable
Compounding fee
Nil
-
Nil
Not Applicable
78 
Omaxe Limited
Non-Monetary
Category
NGRBC
Principle
Name of the regulatory/ 
enforcement agencies/ 
judicial institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal been 
preferred? (Y/ N)
Imprisonment
Nil
-
Not Applicable
Punishment
Nil
-
Not Applicable
3.	
Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or 
non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details
Name of regulatory/ enforcement agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Not Applicable
4.	
Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, Omaxe has an Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy as part of its Code of Conduct. The policy is applicable to all 
employees and Board of Directors of the Omaxe, including its subsidiaries, associates and Joint Venture Companies.
	
As per the policy guidelines, Omaxe has zero tolerance towards any form of bribery and corruption. Omaxe, its Directors 
and employees are expected to be aware of and follow all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws wherever 
Omaxe does business. They are prohibited to receive, offer or make directly/ indirectly any illegal payments, gifts, 
donations or benefits which are intended to obtain business or unethical favours. All Directors and employees at Omaxe 
are provided with training on the Code of Conduct, including anti-corruption and anti-bribery guidelines. Furthermore, all 
Directors and the Senior Management personnel of the Company are required to submit annual compliance declaration, 
to acknowledge their understanding and affirm compliance to the defined guidelines.
 
Omaxe has established a Whistle Blower mechanism that allows employees, Directors and third parties to report any 
unethical business practices, including complaints related to bribery and corruption, to the Whistle Blower Committee or 
to the Chairman of Audit Committee, for undertaking suitable corrective actions. The said policies are available at https://
www.omaxe.com/investor/other-codes-policies.
5.	
Number of Directors/ KMPs/ Employees/ Workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement 
agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Nil
Nil
Employees
Nil
Nil
Workers
             Nil
             Nil
6.	
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors
Nil
-
Nil
-
Number of complaints received in relation to 
issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs
Nil
-
Nil
-
7.	
Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/ penalties/ action taken by 
regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest: Not 
Applicable.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 79 
LEADERSHIP INDICATORS
1.	
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the FY:
Total number 
of awareness 
programmes held
Topics/ principles covered under the training
%age of value chain partners 
covered (by value of business done 
with such partners) under the 
awareness programmes
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
Not Applicable
	
In the Company’s Supplier code of Conduct and general terms and conditions, the Company has emphasized on all 
integrity aspects which are applicable to all suppliers.
2.	
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Y/ N). 
If yes, provide details of the same.
	
Yes, Omaxe has put in place stringent procedures to avoid/ manage any conflicts of interest involving members of the 
Board and other employees. Company’s Code of Conduct provides guidelines for preventing and addressing any conflicts 
of interest. As per the guidelines, Directors are required to disclose any potential conflicts of interests to the Board of 
Directors or any Committee thereof and abstain from participating in the decision-making, voting or in influencing the 
decision on the areas resulting in potential conflict of interest.
	
Further, Omaxe’s Policy on Related Party Transactions & its materiality lays down the procedures to be followed for 
identification, approval and disclosure of all transactions between the Company and related parties. The Policy prohibits 
any Director who may have a potential conflict of interest in any Related Party Transaction, to participate in discussions or 
vote on such transactions.
PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe Essential Indicators
1.	
Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental 
and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
*
*
1.	
Wastage Reduction at all stages of the Process
2.	
Reduction in usage of A4 stationery
Capex
*
*
	
*Most of the expenditure incurred in R & D and Capital budget are the project costs and are ongoing.  Hence, not separable 
and not provided separately.
2.	
a. 	 Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Y/ N).
	
Yes, OMAXE’s Supplier Code of Conduct and the ESG criteria verified at site ensures that sustainability is integrated 
into its supply chain.
b. 	 If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
	
Presently, OMAXE has not carried out any assessment of the percentage of inputs which were sourced sustainably.
3.	
Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, 
for (a) Plastics (including packaging), (b) E-waste, (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
	
Omaxe is engaged in the business of real estate development, including construction, operation and maintenance of real 
estate properties. OMAXE is not involved in reuse or recycling of the developed products. However, Omaxe has processes 
in place to ensure that waste generated within the projects during operation and maintenance of buildings is recycled, 
80 
Omaxe Limited
reused or treated as per the applicable regulatory requirements. All non-hazardous solid waste such as paper, plastic and 
metal scrap are recycled through authorised recyclers.
4.	
Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Y/ N). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? 
If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
	
No. The EPR is not applicable to Company’s activities, as the Company is engaged in the business of real estate development. 
However, Omaxe has processes in place to ensure that waste generated within its projects, during construction and 
operation and maintenance of buildings, is responsibly recycled, reused, or treated as per regulatory requirements.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
	
Omaxe has not yet conducted LCA for its products.
NIC Code
Name of 
Product/ 
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for 
which the Life 
Cycle Perspective/ 
Assessment was 
conducted
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency 
(Y/ N)
Results communicated in 
public domain (Y/ N) If yes, 
provide the web-link.
Not Applicable
2.	
If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/ or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products/ services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/ Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
Name of Product/ Service
Description of the risk/ concern
Action Taken
Not Applicable
3.	
Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing 
industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
-
N.A*
N.A*
4.	
Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled and 
safely disposed, as per the following format:
Material
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Reused
Recycled
Safely 
Disposed
Plastics (including packaging)
 N.A*
N.A*
E-waste
Hazardous waste
Other waste
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 81 
5.	
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Indicate product category
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials as % 
of total products sold in respective category
N.A*
	
*Omaxe is engaged in the business of real estate development, including construction, operation and maintenance of real 
estate properties. Hence, not applicable to its business.
PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total (A)
Health
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity
benefits
Day Care 
facilities
No.
(B)
% (B/ A)
No.
(C)
%
(C/ A)
No.
(D)
%
(D/ A)
No.
(E)
%(E/ 
A)
No.
(F)
%
(F/ A)
Permanent employees
Male
429
429
100%
429
100%
0
0%
429
100%
0
0%
Female
44
44
100%
44
100%
44
100%
0
0%
0
0%
Total
473
473
100%
473
100%
44
100%
429
100%
0
0%
Other than Permanent employees
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
b. 	 Details of measures for the well-being of workers:
% of workers covered by
Category
Total (A)
Health 
insurance
Accident 
insurance
Maternity 
benefits
Paternity 
benefits
Day Care 
facilities
No. (B)
% (B/ 
A)
No. (C)
% (C/ 
A)
No. (D)
% (D/ 
A)
No. (E)
% (E/ 
A)
No. (F)
% (F/ 
A)
Permanent workers
Male
Not Applicable
Female
Total
Other than Permanent workers
Male
450
Not Applicable
Female
83
Total
533
82 
Omaxe Limited
2.	
Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous FY.
Benefits
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/ N/ N.A.)
No. of 
employees 
covered as 
a % of total 
employees
No. of workers 
covered as a % 
of total workers
Deducted and 
deposited with 
the authority 
(Y/ N/ N.A.)
PF
38.48%
100%
Y
38.25%
100%
Y
Gratuity
100%
-
NA
100%
-
NA
ESI
6.13%
-
Y
17.74%
-
Y
	
Note: OMAXE does not have any ‘Other than Permanent’ employees. Hence, in all the sections, details sought for ‘Other 
than Permanent’ employee category are not applicable to OMAXE.
3.	
Accessibility of workplaces
	
Are the premises/ offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
	
Yes, most of the premises/offices of the Company are accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per 
the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. However certain old office buildings are not fully 
equipped with such facilities, though the Company’s endeavor on all existing offices and new offices is to provide such 
facility, to the extent possible. 
4.	
Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide 
a web-link to the policy.
	
Yes, a section of HR manual defines the equal opportunity policy of the company, i.e. Omaxe considers its staff its most 
important assets and devotes considerable resources towards ensuring their well-being and the establishment of a 
productive environment. Omaxe is an ‘equal opportunity employer’ that is committed to hiring staff regardless of gender, 
race, creed, marital status, or national origin. Omaxe actively strives to attract, retain and develop staff of the highest 
quality. The Company will strive to provide a fair and equitable treatment to its staff, encourage opportunities for personal 
growth, discourage all forms of discrimination, provide a safe and well-equipped environment and most importantly, 
provide opportunity for staff participation in matters that affect the staff and their work.
5.	
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Permanent workers
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
100%
100%
There are no permanent workers in  
Omaxe Limited
Female
100%
100%
Total
100%
100%
6.	
Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and 
worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Y/ N (If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Workers
Employees and Workers can raise their grievances with their superiors or 
HR Managers. They can raise their feedback or file complaints on the HR 
helpline facility. Our whistle blower policy enables employees/workers to 
communicate their concerns about unethical practices by writing an e-mail.
Other than Permanent Workers
Permanent Employees
Other than Permanent Employees
Not Applicable
	
Note: OMAXE does not have any ‘Other than Permanent’ employees. Hence, in all the sections, details sought for ‘Other 
than Permanent’ employee category are not applicable to OMAXE.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 83 
7.	
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Union(s) recognized by the listed entity: As on 31 March 
2023, none of the employees of Omaxe were part of any worker association(s) or union(s).
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union(s) 
(B)
% (B/ A)
Total 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers in 
respective 
category, who 
are part of 
association(s) 
or Union(s) 
(D)
% (D/ C)
Total Permanent 
Employees
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total
Permanent Workers
0
0
0
0
0
0
Male
0
0
0
0
0
0
Female
0
0
0
0
0
0
8.	
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
(A)
On Health and 
Safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
Total 
(D)
On Health and 
Safety measures
On Skill 
upgradation
No. (B)
% (B/ 
A)
No (C)
% (C/ 
A)
No. (E)
% (E/ 
D)
No. (F)
% (F/ 
D)
Employees
Male
429
429
100%
429
100%
423
423
100%
423
100%
Female
44
44
100%
44
100%
45
45
100%
45
100%
Total
473
473
100%
473
100%
468
468
100%
468
100%
Workers
Male
450
450
100%
450
100%
437
437
100%
437
100%
Female
83
83
100%
83
100%
87
87
100%
87
100%
Total
533
533
100%
533
100%
524
524
100%
524
100%
9.	
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/ A)
Total (C)
No. (D)
% (D/ C)
Employees
Male
429
429
    100%
421
421
100%
Female
44
44
100%
47
47
100%
Total
473
473
100%
468
468
100%
Workers
Male
450
450
   100%
437
437
100%
Female
83
83
100%
87
87
100%
Total
533
533
   100%
524
524
100%
	
Note: Certain employees were not eligible for annual performance review based on their date of joining. All eligible 
employees as on the date of FY ending, have received performance and career development reviews.
84 
Omaxe Limited
10.	 Health and safety management system:
a.	
Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Y/ N). If yes, 
the coverage of such system?
	
Yes, Omaxe has implemented an occupational health and safety management system. It covers the entire business 
including project sites, managed assets (operational premises) and the hospitality division.
b.	
What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis 
by the entity?
	
Omaxe staying up-to-date to control risks and adapting to modern demands is one idea we are adhering to for risk 
control that can keep workplace safety measures in place. Two different sorts of monitoring techniques are used 
by Omaxe to inspect the workplace. One is active monitoring, which help us to keep track of how management 
arrangements are created, developed, installed and used. We regularly audit our facilities, including our offices and 
projects. We do routine health surveillance to spot risks and get rid of those that are bad for health.
 
Omaxe takes a systematic and coordinated approach to managing workplace risks. We use risk assessment to identify 
and eliminate risks and we prefer hierarchy to prioritize measures to combat risks. We also use engineering controls 
and collective measures to minimize risks. 
c.	
Whether you have processes for workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such 
risks. (Y/ N).
	
Yes, OMAXE has a well-defined Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for incident reporting, classification and 
investigation for any incidents related to health and safety. 
d.	
Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Y/ N).
	
Yes, OMAXE provides access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services to employees, such as:
1.	
Every project is equipped with emergency handling equipment and first-aid to handle any occupational or non-
occupational injuries and illnesses;
2.	
Trainings are organized periodically through HR facilitations on promoting good health and well-being;
3.	
All employees are covered under health insurance.
11.	 Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/ Number
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 
(LTIFR) (per one million-person 
hours worked)
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
Total recordable work-related 
injuries
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
No. of fatalities
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
High consequence work-related 
injury or ill-health (excluding 
fatalities)
Employees
NIL
NIL
Workers
NIL
NIL
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 85 
12.	 Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
	
OMAXE upholds health, safety and security as a core value in the conduct of its business and is committed to creating a 
zero-harm workplace i.e. zero lost-time injuries or fatalities, each year. Measures to ensure a safe and healthy workplace 
include periodic health surveillance, trainings for management, employees and contractors, and periodic review by senior 
management.
13.	 Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Filed 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end 
of year
Remarks
Working Conditions
0
0
-
0
0
-
Health & Safety
0
0
-
0
0
-
14.	 Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or 
statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
Nil
Working Conditions
Nil
15.	 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks/ concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
	
There were no major safety related incidents or concerns arising from health and safety assessments. 
	
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of
(A)  Employees (Y/ N) (B) Workers (Y/ N)?
(A)	 Employees: Employees are covered in Group Accidental Insurance.
(B) Workers: Workers are covered in Group Accidental Insurance.
2.	
Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by 
the value chain partners.
	
Company adheres by all the statutory compliance as applicable under various Statutory Laws and same is applicable 
to the Value chain partners as well. The records are verified based on the periodic audit process within the internal 
audit team.
3.	
Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high consequence work related injury/ill-health/
fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
86 
Omaxe Limited
Safety Incident/ Number
Total no. of affected employees/
workers
No. of employees/workers that are 
rehabilitated and placed in suitable 
or whose family members have 
been placed in suitable employment
FY 2022-23 
(Current
Financial Year)
FY 2021-22 
(Previous
Financial Year)
FY 2022-23 
(Current
Financial Year)
FY 2021-22 
(Previous
Financial Year)
Employees
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
Workers
Nil
Nil
Nil
Nil
4.	
Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the management of 
career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Y/ N).
	
No
5.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such 
partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
Not Applicable
Working Conditions
Not Applicable
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from 
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
	
Not Applicable 
PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
	
At Omaxe, stakeholder engagement is an integral part of its operations. The Company’s objective is to create long-term 
sustainable value for all the stakeholders associated with its business, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers 
and business partners, Government and communities. To this end, it is vital for Omaxe to develop an understanding of the 
stakeholders’ needs, concerns and expectations. Omaxe strives to achieve this through effective collaboration and regular 
interaction with all its key stakeholder groups.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 87 
2.	
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable
& Marginalized 
Group
(Y/ N)
Channels of 
communication 
(E-mail, SMS, 
Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ 
others)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
Topics and Concerns raised 
during such engagement
Customers
No
• E-mails
• Direct customer calls
• Advertisements
• Press calls through 
empaneled channel 
partners
• Customer satisfaction 
surveys
Ongoing
• Product launch awareness;
• Customer service delivery;
• Seeking customer 
feedback; and
• Customer query and 
complaint resolution.
Investors and 
Shareholders
No
• Annual General 
Meetings
• Periodic disclosures 
including Quarterly 
Financial Results
• Press releases and 
newsletters
• Corporate 
Announcements 
uploaded on Stock 
Exchanges Websites 
and Company’s Website
Ongoing
• Economic performance 
and growth;
• Shareholders awareness 
on business developments;
• Key risks related to 
the Company such as 
competition and market 
risk; and
• Ensuring regulatory 
compliance.
Suppliers and 
Contractors
No
• E-mails
• Phone calls
• Meetings
Others – 
depending 
on the project 
requirements
• Timely delivery of material 
and work completion;
• Enhancing the deployment 
of resources and 
manpower;
• Timely payment issues (if 
any);
• Issuing of contract 
amendments (if any);
• Ensuring regulatory 
compliance.
Employees
No
• Employee newsletters
• Intranet portal
• E-mail and other 
written communication
• Performance review 
meetings
• Various functional 
committee meetings
• Cultural events
• Offsites
• Skip Meetings
Ongoing
• Keep employees updated 
on organizational goals, 
vision, mission and 
objectives and also align 
with the business plans;
• Learning and development;
• Career advancement 
opportunities;
• Health and safety;
• Transparent 
communication and 
grievance redressal;
• Performance evaluation; 
and
• Rewards and Recognition.
• Ensuring regulatory 
compliance.
88 
Omaxe Limited
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether identified 
as Vulnerable
& Marginalized 
Group
(Y/ N)
Channels of 
communication 
(E-mail, SMS, 
Newspaper, Pamphlets, 
Advertisement, 
Community Meetings, 
Notice Board, Website), 
Other
Frequency of 
engagement 
(Annually/ 
Half yearly/ 
Quarterly/ 
others)
Purpose and scope of 
engagement including key 
Topics and Concerns raised 
during such engagement
Regulatory 
Bodies
No
• Electronic and physical 
correspondence with 
regulatory bodies
• Face to face meetings
• Through industry 
chambers
• Annual Report
Ongoing
• Regulatory compliance;
• CSR activities and 
compliance of spending; 
and
• Deliberations and inputs 
on regulations and policies 
that have bearing on 
OMAXE’s operations and 
businesses.
Communities
Yes
• Direct engagement 
via field visits and 
community meetings 
undertaken by OMAXE 
Foundation along 
with the Company’s 
CSR project 
implementation 
partners (NGO) and 
their community 
mobilizers as part of 
CSR programmes
Ongoing
• Need assessments;
• CSR programmes and 
remedial benefits to the 
beneficiaries;
• CSR programme 
monitoring, evaluation and 
impact assessment; and
• Programme Updates.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
	
Omaxe, periodically undertakes consultation with key internal and external stakeholders as part of the materiality 
assessment exercise. This is aimed at identifying and re-evaluating material economic, environmental and social topics 
relevant for its business. The process has been delegated by the Board to the management.
2.	
Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental and social 
topics (Yes/No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
	
Not Applicable
3.	
Provide details of instances of engagement with and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/marginalized 
stakeholder groups.
     Not Applicable
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 89 
PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
1.	
Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the 
following format:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers 
covered (B)
% (B/ A)
Total (C)
No. of 
employees/ 
workers covered 
(D)
% (D/ C)
Employees
Permanent*
473
473
100%
468
468
100%
Other than 
Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Total Employees
473
473
100%
468
468
100%
Workers
Permanent
0
0
0
0
0
0
Other than 
Permanent
533
  533
     100%
524
    524
      100%
Total Workers
533
  533
     100%
524
    524
      100%
	
*Note: All employees are provided with training on Code of Conduct of the Company and Prevention of Sexual Harassment 
(PoSH), which covers human rights related aspects.
2.	
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total 
(A)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
Total 
(D)
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than 
Minimum Wage
No. (B)
% (B/ 
A)
No. (C)
% (C/ 
A)
No. (E)
% (E/ 
D)
No. (F)
% (F/ 
D)
Employees
Permanent
Male
429 
-
 - 
 429
100%
421
-
-
421
100% 
Female
44
-
-
44
100%
47
-
-
47
100% 
Other than Permanent
Not Applicable
Male
Female
Workers
Permanent
Not Applicable
Male
Female
Other than Permanent
Male
450
- 
- 
450
100%
437
-
-
437
100% 
Female
83
-
-
83
100%
87
-
-
87
100% 
90 
Omaxe Limited
3.	
Details of remuneration/ salary/ wages, in the following format:
Category
Male
Female
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category
(` in lakhs per annum)
Number
Median remuneration/ 
salary/ wages of 
respective category 
(` in lakhs per annum)
Board of Directors (BoDs)
5
50.00
1
5.65
Key Managerial Personnel (KMPs)
3
35.36
0
0.00
Employees other than BoDs and 
KMPs
426
6.00
44
5.76
Workers
450
1.26
83
1.20
4.	
Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Y/ N).
	
Yes.
	
OMAXE has a formal mechanism that allows for reporting and remediation of all human rights related issues through its 
Whistle Blower Policy. This allows all stakeholders including employees, suppliers, customers and vendors to report any 
human right-related concerns. Through this mechanism, OMAXE provides the necessary safeguards to all complainants 
for making disclosures in good faith.
	
In addition, OMAXE has an Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) that is responsible for addressing any incidents and 
complaints related to sexual harassment.
5.	
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
	
OMAXE has a formal mechanism that allows for reporting and remediation of all human rights related issues through its 
Whistle Blower Policy. This allows all stakeholders including employees, suppliers, customers and vendors to report any 
human right-related concerns. Through this mechanism, OMAXE provides the necessary safeguards to all complainants 
for making disclosures in good faith.
	
In addition, OMAXE has an ICC that is responsible for addressing any incidents and complaints related to sexual 
harassment. All such incidents can be reported to the ICC as per the process defined in OMAXE’s Policy on Prevention of 
Sexual Harassment.
6.	
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Complaints
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
0
0
-
0
0
-
Discrimination at workplace
0
0
-
0
0
-
Child Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Forced Labour/ Involuntary 
Labour
0
0
-
0
0
-
Wages
0
0
-
0
0
-
Other Human Rights related 
issues
0
0
-
0
0
-
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 91 
7.	
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
 
Omaxe’s Whistle Blower Policy allows employees, contractors and vendors to report any human rights related concerns or 
complaints without fear of retaliation. The policy provides necessary safeguards to all complainants for making disclosures 
in good faith, through specific guidelines to ensure the protection of the complainant:
a)	
The identity of the complainant is kept confidential at all times, except during the course of any legal proceedings, 
where a disclosure/ statement is required to be filed to meet the specific requirement of Statutory Bodies;
b)	 The Company, as a policy, strongly condemns any kind of discrimination, harassment or any other unfair employment 
practice being adopted against the complainant and full protection is granted to him/ her against any reprisal including 
but not limited to:
(i)	 Unfair employment practices such as threat or intimidation of termination/ suspension of services;
(ii)	 Disciplinary action including transfer, demotion, refusal of promotion; and
(iii)	 Direct or indirect abuse of authority to obstruct the complainant’s right to continue performance of his duties 
during routine daily operations.
8.	
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Y/ N).
	
Yes.
	
The terms of contract signed with the value chain partners (including suppliers, contractors, service providers and other 
business partners), includes human rights related requirements.
9.	
Assessments for the year:
Complaints
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity 
or statutory authorities or third parties)
Child labour
Nil
Forced/ involuntary labour
Nil
Sexual harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Wages
Nil
10.	 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
	
No significant risks or concerns were identified from assessments on human rights related issues.
	
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of a business process being modified/ introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/ complaints.
	
There have been no significant human rights related concerns or grievances. However, Omaxe has strengthened its 
procedures to address any potential human rights related risks in owned operations and in the value chain. The Company 
has a General Conditions of Contract/ Supplier Code of Conduct with human rights related guidelines for all value chain 
partners, (including suppliers, contractors, vendors, service providers and other business partners). Further, the critical 
suppliers including contractors engaged in construction of its portfolio, are evaluated on their employment practices, to 
prevent any potential human rights issues or violations in its supply chain.
92 
Omaxe Limited
2.	
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
	
Omaxe internally monitors compliances to all relevant laws and policies pertaining to human rights issues, across entire 
operations. 
	
Is the premise/ office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
	
Most of the premises/ offices of Omaxe are accessible to differently abled individuals, as per the requirements of the Rights 
of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. OMAXE has thoroughly implemented various measures to ensure accessibility, 
safety and convenience for persons with disability in all of its new offices/ premises. Further, requisite steps are being 
undertaken in its existing offices/ premises to align with the requirements of the applicable regulatory provisions.
3.	
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that 
were assessed10
Sexual Harassment
Nil
Discrimination at workplace
Nil
Child Labour
Nil
Forced Labour/ Involuntary Labour
Nil
Wages
Nil
4.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
	
No significant risks or concerns were identified from assessments of value chain partners on human rights related issues.
PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format*: 
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total electricity consumption (A) [in Gigajoules (GJ)]
7329.98
4346.05
Total fuel consumption (B) (in GJ)
2402.13
1696.88
Energy consumption through other sources (C) (in GJ)
-
-
Total energy consumption (A+B+C) (in GJ)
9732.11
6042.93
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumption in GJ/ turnover in rupees)
0.00
0.00
Energy intensity per area of total portfolio [Total energy consumption in GJ/ area of 
portfolio (including total leasable and saleable area) in sq. mtr.]
0.00
0.00
	
*The aforesaid figures are on approximation basis. However, we are in process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability 
standards and setting the goals and targets in line with the NGRBC/ GRI framework.	
	
Note: Indicate, if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ 
N). If yes, name the external agency.
	
No.
2.	
Does the entity have any sites/ facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/ N). If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT Scheme have 
been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
	
Not Applicable.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 93 
3.	
Details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format*:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source [in kiloliters (KL)]
(i) Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
11662.30
7486.43
(iii) Third party water
-
-
(iv) Seawater/ desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kiloliters) (i+ii+iii+iv+v)
11662.30
7486.43
Total volume of water consumption (in kiloliters)
11662.30
7486.43
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed in KL/ turnover in rupees)
0.00
0.00
Water intensity per area of total portfolio [Total water consumption in KL/ area of 
portfolio (including total leasable and saleable area) in sq. mtr.]
0.00
0.00
	
*The aforesaid figures are on approximation basis. However, we are in process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability 
standards and setting the goals and targets in line with the NGRBC/ GRI framework.	
	
Note: Indicate, if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ 
N). If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No.
4.	
Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
	
Treated wastewater from our projects are recycled for flushing and reused for irrigation purposes in the landscaped areas 
of the projects. Excess treated water is also being used for construction purposes, Avenue plantations and also sold to 
third party vendors for further use.
5.	
Details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
6.	
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) and its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total Scope 1 emissions
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
Not Applicable
Total Scope 2 emissions
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
per rupee of turnover
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent per 
rupee of turnover
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions 
per area of total portfolio
Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent per square 
metre 
of 
portfolio 
(including 
total 
leasable and saleable area in sq. mtr.)
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N). 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No.
94 
Omaxe Limited
7.	
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
	
The Company does not have a dedicated project related to reducing Green House Gas emissions. 
8.	
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23*
FY 2021-22*
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
-
-
E-waste (B)
-
-
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery waste (E)
-
-
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste (G)
(i)	 Used Lube Oil
-
-
(ii) Others (used DG Filters, Cotton waste and cooking oil)
-
-
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H)
(i) Paper Waste
-
-
(ii) Scrap Metal
-
-
(iii) Organic Waste
-
-
(iv) Miscellaneous
-
-
Total (A+B+C+D+E+F+G+H)
-
-
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in 
metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled
-
-
(ii) Re-used
-
-
	
* The Company is engaged in the business of real estate and do not operate any factory and do not significantly use such 
materials. 
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
No
9.	
Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by 
your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices 
adopted to manage such wastes.
	
The Company is engaged in the business of real estate and do not operate any factory and do not significantly use such 
materials. The Hazardous waste, if any, is handed over to authorized recyclers.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 95 
10.	 If the entity has operations/ offices in/ around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental 
approvals/ clearances are required, specify details in the following format:
S.No.
Location of operations/ 
offices
Type of operations
Whether the conditions of environmental approval/ 
clearance are being complied with? (Y/ N) If no, the 
reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Not Applicable
11.	 Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the 
current financial year*:
Name and brief details of 
project
EIA Notification No.
Date
Whether 
conducted by 
independent 
external 
agency
(Y/ N)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain
(Y/ N)
Relevant Web 
link
Not Applicable
 
* We are in the process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability standards and setting the goals and targets in line with 
the NGRBC/ GRI framework.
12.	 Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water 
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, environment protection act and 
rules thereunder (Y/ N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
	
Yes, OMAXE is compliant with all applicable environmental laws, regulations and guidelines in India.
S. No.
Specify the law/ regulation/ 
guidelines which was not 
complied with
Provide details 
of the non- 
compliance
Any fines/ penalties/ action taken 
by regulatory agencies such as 
pollution control boards or by 
courts
Corrective action 
taken if any
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the 
following format:*
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A) (in GJ)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (B) (in GJ)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C) (in GJ)
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) (in GJ)
-
-
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D) (in GJ)
-
-
Total fuel consumption (E) (in GJ)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (F) (in GJ)
-
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) (in GJ)
-
-
 
* We are in the process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability standards and setting the goals and targets in line with 
the NGRBC/ GRI framework.	
96 
Omaxe Limited
	
Note: Indicate, if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N). 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No.
2.	
Provide the following details related to water discharged:*
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment [in kiloliters(KL)]:
(i) To Surface water
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – specify level of Treatment
-
-
(ii) To Groundwater
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – specify level of Treatment
-
-
(iii) To Seawater
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – specify level of Treatment
-
-
 
* We are in the process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability standards and setting the goals and targets in line with 
the NGRBC/ GRI framework.	
	
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If 
yes, name of the external agency.
	
No.
3.	
Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres): *
	
For each facility/plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
i. 	
Name of the area
ii. 	 Nature of operations
iii.  Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source [in kilolitres (KL)]:
(i) Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
-
-
(iii) Third party water
-
-
(iv) Seawater/ desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
-
-
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
-
-
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed in KL/ turnover in 
rupees)
-
-
Water intensity per area of total portfolio
[Total water consumption in KL/ area of portfolio (including total leasable 
and saleable area) in sq. mtr.]
-
-
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment [in kilolitres (KL)]:
(i) Into Surface water
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – specify level of treatment
-
-
(ii) Into Groundwater
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 97 
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
-	
With treatment – specify level of treatment
-
-
(iii) Into Seawater
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment – specify level of treatment
-
-
(iv) Sent to third-parties
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment– specify level of treatment
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
-	
No treatment
-
-
-	
With treatment– specify level of treatment
-
-
Total water discharged (in kilolitres)
-
-
 
* We are in the process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability standards and setting the goals and targets in line with 
the NGRBC/ GRI framework.	
	
Note: Indicate, if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N). 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No.
4.	
Details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, 
CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available)
Metric tonnes of 
CO2 equivalent
N.A.
N.A.
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover
N.A.
N.A.
Total Scope 3 emission intensity (optional) – the 
relevant metric may be selected by the entity
N.A.
N.A.
	
Note: Indicate, if any independent assessment/ evaluation/ assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/ N). 
If yes, name of the external agency.
	
No.
5.	
With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of 
significant direct and indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along- with prevention and remediation 
activities.
	
Not Applicable.
6.	
If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/ effluent discharge/ waste generated, provide details of the same as well 
as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S. No.
Initiative 
undertaken
Details of the initiative 
(Web-link, if any, may be provided along-with summary)
Outcome of the 
initiative
Not Applicable
7.	
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
	
Yes, Omaxe has a business continuity plan in place to address any emergency situations in its operations, including both 
construction activities as well as operation and maintenance of its portfolio. These emergencies are identified as natural 
disasters and human caused disasters such as fire incidents, gas leakage, earthquake, flood, cyclone, power blackout, 
terrorist attacks, bomb threats, civil unrest, food poisoning and epidemics.
98 
Omaxe Limited
8.	
Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation 
or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
	
There has been no significant adverse impacts to the environment arising from any of the OMAXE’s projects. The Company 
promotes responsible development practices through ensuring compliance to all applicable regulatory requirements, 
incorporating climate resilient building design in its portfolio, promoting the use of renewables for energy generation and 
procuring sustainable construction material. Any potential environmental impact is identified and assessed at the time of 
project planning and preventive or mitigative measures are undertaken accordingly.
9.	
Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts
	
100% of the critical value chain partners including contractors and vendors engaged in construction of the projects and 
FM Partners engaged in management of the rental properties are evaluated on environmental parameters.
PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is 
responsible and transparent
Essential Indicators
1.	
a. 	 Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
	
Omaxe has affiliations with 5 trade and industry chambers/ associations, including national and state level associations. 
It constantly engages with these trade bodies to advocate sector specific policy reforms and improved transparency 
and governance.
b. 	 List the top 5 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the 
entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach of trade and 
industry chambers/ 
associations (State/ 
National)
1
PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry (PHDCCI)
National
2
CREDAI 
State
3 
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) 
National
4
National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO) 
National
5
The Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India (ASSOCHAM) 
National
2.	
Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
	
There were no incidents of anti-competitive conduct by Omaxe during FY 2022-23, hence this is not applicable.
Name of authority
Brief of the case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
S.No.
Public policy advocated
Method 
resorted for 
such advocacy
Whether 
information 
available in 
public domain? 
(Y/ N)
Frequency of review 
by Board (Annually/ 
Half yearly/ Quarterly/ 
Others)
Web Link, if 
available
Nil
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 99 
PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1.	
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
FY.
Name and brief 
details of project
SIA 
Notification 
No.
Date of notification
Whether conducted 
by independent 
external agency (Y/ 
N)
Results 
communicated in 
public domain
(Y/ N)
Relevant Web 
Link
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format:
S. No.
Name of Project 
for which R&R is 
ongoing
State
District
No. of Project 
Affected 
Families (PAFs)
% of PAFs 
covered by R&R
Amounts paid to 
PAFs in the FY 
(In INR)
Not Applicable
3.	
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
	
Omaxe engages with community members through its social arm - OMAXE Foundation. In addition, OMAXE is closely 
connected with community members through its CSR programmes. The respective programme team engages with the 
community stakeholders to receive and redress concerns of the communities.
4.	
Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers*
-
-
Sourced directly from within the district and neighboring districts#
-
-
 
* We always thrive to procure raw materials froms MSME vendors, to the extent possible.
	
# The operations of the Company are based PAN India, hence, these exependitures are not separable and not provided 
separately. However, we are in process of re-evaluating our existing sustainability standards and setting the goals and 
targets in line with the NGRBC/ GRI framework.
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments 
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Details of negative social impact identified
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
2.	
Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies:
S. No.
State
Aspirational District
Amount spent (In INR)
Not Applicable
3.	
(a) 	 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized/ vulnerable groups? (Y/ N).
	
	
No.
100 
Omaxe Limited
(b)	 From which marginalized/ vulnerable groups do you procure?
	
Not applicable.
(c)	 	What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
	
	
Not applicable.
4.	
Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the 
current FY), based on traditional knowledge:
	
Not applicable. OMAXE does not have any intellectual properties owned or acquired based on traditional knowledge.
S. No.
Intellectual Property 
based on traditional 
knowledge
Owned/ Acquired (Y/ N)
Benefit shared (Y/ N)
Basis of calculating 
benefit share
Not Applicable
5.	
Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes 
wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Name of authority
Brief of the Case
Corrective action taken
Not Applicable
6.	
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
S. No.
CSR Project
No. of persons benefitted 
from CSR Projects
% of beneficiaries 
from vulnerable and 
marginalized groups
Not Applicable.
PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Essential Indicators
1.	
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
	
Customer feedback, questions and complaints are handled in a transparent and timely manner. A dedicated team of 
qualified Customer Relationship Management (CRM) personnel have been appointed to address each complaint. This 
mechanism is communicated via the contact no./ e-mail through the very first letter of correspondence with a newly on-
boarded customer. 
2.	
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/ service that carry information about:
As a percentage to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
NA
Safe and responsible usage
NA
Recycling and/ or safe disposal
NA
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 101 
3.	
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the 
year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Advertising
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Cyber-security
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Delivery of essential services
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Restrictive Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Unfair Trade Practices
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
Other
Nil
Nil
-
Nil
Nil
-
4.	
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
Not Applicable
Forced recalls
	
Due to nature of business of OMAXE, product recalls on account of safety issues is not applicable.
5.	
Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Y/ N). If available, provide 
a web-link of the policy.
	
Yes, OMAXE has an Information Security Policy supported by management procedures that are aimed at achieving and 
sustaining enterprise- level information security objectives. Ensuring security of information, like any other business asset, 
is one of the key priorities in the business processes, to prevent any theft, tampering, misuse and unauthorized access. 
OMAXE constantly deploys appropriate technology, processes, resources and infrastructure for timely implementation of 
security controls that comply with applicable laws and incorporate leading industry practices.
	
The Company has established procedures to ensure data privacy of its customers, employees and other stakeholders. It 
only collects customer information which is essential for the purpose of providing the product or service. The collected 
data is protected through regular security upgrades and adequate employee training is provided to ensure safeguarding 
of sensitive information. The risk management policy of the Company is available at https://www.omaxe.com/investors/other-
disclosures-under-sebi-regulations/Other%20Codes%20&%20Policies/Policy%20on%20Risk%20Management.pdf.
6.	
Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
	
NA
Leadership Indicators
1.	
Channels/ platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if 
available).
	
Details of all the products and services are provided on the Company’s website at https://www.omaxe.com
2.	
Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/ or services.
	
Consumers are informed about the safe and responsible usage of OMAXE’s buildings through various measures undertaken 
at the time of building handover, as well as during operation and maintenance.
102 
Omaxe Limited
3.	
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services.
	
Any risk of disruption/ discontinuation of essential services is timely communicated to customers occupying the leased 
properties, through e-mail communication by the CRM Teams.
4.	
Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Y/ N/ 
Not Applicable). If yes, provide details in brief.
	
Yes, the entity displays the information about the product and its various features within the product. The Company is 
bound by RERA however the product brochures also inform the customer about the sustainability features and the related 
customer benefits. Provision of signage within the product also guides the customers to identify the features and its 
usage. Customer satisfaction is ensured by having continuous engagement right from the day of possession till society 
handover, timely response to their grievances and prompt service support. We do take feedback from our customers 
through customer surveys in which we request the customer to share feedback about their experience of the product, 
their journey throughout the possession of their flat, etc. These feedbacks provide an opportunity to us to understand the 
customer pain points and liking of the sustainability and other.
5.	
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a.	
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact: Nil.
b. 	 Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: Nil.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 103 
This Policy on Appointment and Remuneration of Director(s), 
KMP(s) and SMP(s) applies to the Directors, Key Managerial 
Personnels and Senior Management Personnels of Omaxe 
Limited (the “Company”).
This Policy is in compliance with Section 178 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 alongwith the provisions of Regulation 26 and 19(4) 
read with Part D of Schedule II of SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
1.	
Purpose
	
The primary objective of this Policy is to provide a 
framework and set standards for the nomination, 
appointment and remuneration of the Director(s), KMP(s) 
and SMP(s). The Company aims to achieve a balance of 
merit, experience and skills amongst its Director(s), 
KMP(s) and SMP(s) for overall growth of the organization. 
Any variance shall be subject to the approval of 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee of the Company 
and the Board of Directors and Shareholders, if required, 
in compliance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended or such other applicable 
laws for the time being in force.
2.	
Definitions
2.1	 Director: Director means directors of the Company 
appointed on the Board of the Company and includes 
Independent Director.
2.2	 Key Managerial Personnel: “Key Managerial Personnel” 
(KMP) as defined in Section 2(51) of the Companies Act, 
2013, in relation to Omaxe Limited means:
(i)	 Managing Director
(ii) Whole-time Director;
(iii)	 Chief Executive Officer;
(iv)	 Company Secretary;
(v)	 Chief Financial Officer; 
(vi)	 Such other officer, not more than one level below 
the Directors who is in whole-time employment, 
designated as key managerial personnel by the 
Board; and
(vii)	Such other Officer as may be prescribed under 
Companies Act, 2013
2.3 Senior Management Personnel: “Senior Management 
Personnel” (SMP) means the officers and personnel of 
the Company who are members of its core management 
team, excluding the Board of Directors and shall also 
comprise all the members of the management one level 
below the Chief Executive Officer or Managing Director 
or Whole Time Director or Manager (including Chief 
Executive Officer and Manager, in case they are not part 
of the Board of Directors) and shall specifically include 
the functional heads, by whatever name called and the 
Company Secretary and the Chief Financial Officer.
3.1	 Appointment policy for Director(s)
 
When recommending a candidate for appointment, 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall 
consider the following:
-	
The Candidate meets the criteria/ qualifications as 
specified under the Companies Act, 2013 and SEBI 
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended.
-	
assessing the appointee a range of criteria which 
includes but not be limited to qualifications, skills, 
regional and industry experience, background and 
other qualities required to operate successfully in 
the position.
-	
the extent to which the appointee is likely to contribute 
to the overall effectiveness, work constructively and 
enhance the efficiencies of the Company;
-	
the nature of existing positions held by the appointee 
and the impact they may have on the appointee’s 
ability to exercise independent judgment;
	
Personal specifications may include but not limited to:
-	
Experience of management in a diverse organization; 
ANNEXURE-IV
POLICY ON APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF DIRECTOR(s), KMP(s) AND SMP(s)
[Policy last amended on August 10, 2023]
104 
Omaxe Limited
-	
Excellent 
interpersonal, 
communication 
and 
representational skills;
-	
Demonstrable leadership skills;
-	
Commitment to high standards of ethics, personal 
integrity and probity;
-	
Commitment to the promotion of equal opportunities, 
community cohesion and health and safety in the 
work place;
-	
Having continuous professional development to 
refresh knowledge and skills.
3.2	 Letters of Appointment to Directors
	
Each Director shall be issued a letter of appointment with 
the Company containing the terms of appointment and 
the roles and responsibilities assigned in the Company.
3.3	 Remuneration policy for Director(s)
	
The remuneration policy of the Company is directed 
towards rewarding performance, based on review of 
achievements on periodical basis. The remuneration 
policy is in consonance with the existing Industry norms. 
The tenure of office of the Managing Director and Whole 
Time Director is for a certain period from their respective 
dates of appointments. The overall remuneration to 
Managerial Personnel is in terms of Section 197 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
3.4	 Criteria of making payments to Non-Executive Director
	
The Non-Executive Directors are paid sitting fee within 
the limit permissible under the Companies Act, 2013 and 
rules made there under from time to time. Presently the 
sitting fee for Non-Executive Director is Rs. 60,000/- each 
for Board Meeting and Rs. 40,000/- for Audit Committee 
and Independent Directors’ Meeting and Rs. 25,000/- 
for other Committee Meeting(s) including conveyance 
charges.
	
Further, Non-Executive Director(s) are entitled, within the 
overall limit approved by the shareholders, commission 
not exceeding 1% of the net profits of the Company 
calculated as per section 198 of Companies Act subject 
to the maximum of Rs. 5,00,000/- per annum.
	
Furthermore, remuneration, with or without the 
commission, specified above, may be paid to all 
or some of the Non-Executive Directors, upon the 
recommendations of Board of Directors and Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee of the Company and the 
approval of Shareholders, if required, subject to the 
compliance of the provisions of Companies Act, 2013, 
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015, as amended or such other applicable 
laws for the time being in force.
3.5	 Service Contract, Severance Fees and Notice Period
	
Directors of the Company are ultimately appointed by 
the Shareholders upon recommendations of the Board of 
Directors and Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
of the Company within the framework of the Companies 
Act, 2013 as well as the Articles of Association of the 
Company and in line with the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
	
Resolutions passed by these governing bodies together 
with the service rules of the Company covers the terms, 
conditions and remuneration of such appointment and 
all appointment letters issued to respective director(s) 
contains price, terms & conditions accordingly. There 
is no service contract separately entered into by the 
Company with the Directors. Further, the resolutions 
appointing these Directors do not prescribe for the 
payment of any separate Severance Fees to them. 
However, the requirement of notice period is as per the 
service rules of the Company.
4.1	 Appointment Policy for KMPs/SMPs
	
Enhancing the competencies and attracting as well 
as retaining talented employees are the basis for 
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee/HR 
Department to select a candidate for appointment 
of KMP/SMP. When recommending a candidate for 
appointment, 
the 
Nomination 
and 
Remuneration 
Committee shall consider the following:
-	
assessing the appointee against a range of criteria 
which includes but not be limited to qualifications, 
skills, regional and industry experience, background 
and other qualities required to operate successfully 
in the position.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 105 
-	
the extent to which the appointee is likely to contribute 
to the overall effectiveness, work constructively and 
enhance the efficiencies of the Company;
-	
the skills and experience that the appointee brings 
to the role of KMP/SMP and how an appointee will 
enhance the skill sets and experience of the KMP/
SMP as a whole;
-	
the nature of existing positions held by the appointee 
and the impact they may have on the appointee’s 
ability to exercise independent judgment;
	
Personal specifications may include but not limited to:
-	
Degree holder in relevant disciplines;
-	
Experience of management in a diverse organization;
-	
Excellent 
interpersonal, 
communication 
and 
representational skills;
-	
Demonstrable leadership skills;
-	
Commitment to high standards of ethics, personal 
integrity and probity;
-	
Commitment to the promotion of equal opportunities, 
community cohesion and health and safety in the 
workplace;
-	
Having continuous professional development to 
refresh knowledge and skills.
4.2	 Letters of Appointment to KMP(s) /SMP(s)
	
Each KMP/SMP is required to sign the letter of 
appointment with the Company containing the terms of 
appointment and the role and responsibility assigned in 
the Company.
4.3	 Remuneration of Key Managerial Personnel(s)	
and	 Senior Management Personnel(s)
	
The guiding principle is that the level and composition 
of remuneration shall be reasonable and sufficient 
to attract, retain and motivate Key Management 
Personnel(s)/ Senior Management Personnel(s) and 
other senior officials.
	
The 
Key 
Management 
Personnel(s) 
and 
Senior 
Management Personnel(s) salary shall be based & 
determined on the individual person’s responsibilities 
and performance and in accordance with the limits as 
prescribed statutorily, if any.
	
The 
Nominations 
& 
Remuneration 
Committee 
determines individual remuneration packages for KMPs 
and SMPs of the Company taking into account factors 
it deems relevant, including but not limited to market, 
business performance and practices in comparable 
companies, having due regard to financial and 
commercial health of the Company as well as prevailing 
laws and government/other guidelines. The Committee 
may consults with the Chairman of the Board wherever it 
may deem appropriate.
	
Remuneration must be competitive and reflective of the 
individual’s role, responsibility and experience in relation 
to performance of day-to-day activities, usually reviewed 
on an annual basis; (includes salary, allowances and 
other statutory/non-statutory benefits which are normal 
part of remuneration package in line with market 
practices).
	
The remuneration payable to the Key Managerial 
Personnel and the Senior Management Personnel shall 
be as may be decided by the Committee /HR Department 
taking into consideration the experience, leadership 
abilities, initiative taking abilities and knowledge etc.
5. 	 Communication
	
This policy shall be placed on the website of the company 
and the salient features of the policy and changes 
therein, if any, along with the web address of the policy, 
shall be disclosed in the Board’s Report of the Company.
106 
Omaxe Limited
ANNEXURE V
PARTICULARS OF EMPLOYEES
The information required under Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment & 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 are given below:
1.	
Ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company for the 
financial year 2022-23:
Name of Directors
Ratio of remuneration of Director to median 
remuneration of Employees
Mr. Rohtas Goel
83.33 times
Mr. Mohit Goel
28.65 times
Mr. Vinit Goyal
8.68 times
2.	
The percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Company 
Secretary, in the financial year 2022-23:
Name of Directors
Designation
Percentage increase/decrease
Mr. Rohtas Goel
Chairman & Whole Time Director
NIL
Mr. Mohit Goel
Managing Director
14.58%
Mr. Vinit Goyal
Whole Time Director
NIL
Mr. Arun Kumar Pandey 
Chief Financial Officer (upto 14.11.2022)
NA*
Mr. Manoj Kumar Dua
Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. 15.11.2022)
NA*
Mr. Navin Jain 
Company Secretary (upto 13.02.2023)
NA#
Mr. Vikas Khandelwal
Company Secretary (w.e.f. 14.02.2023)
NA#
*	
Mr. Manoj Kumar Dua was appointed as Chief Financial Officer w.e.f. 15.11.2022 in place of Mr. Arun Kumar Pandey who 
retired from the said position on 14.11.2022 upon attaining the age of superannuation. Hence, the percentage increase/ 
decrease in salary is not ascertainable.
# 	 Mr. Vikas Khandelwal was appointed as Company Secretary w.e.f. 14.02.2023 in place of Mr. Navin Jain who resigned from 
the said position on 13.02.2023. Hence, the percentage increase/ decrease in salary is not ascertainable.
3.	
The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year:  Increased by 4.12% 
4.	
The number of permanent employees on the roll of the Company as on 31.03.2023:  473
5.	
Average percentile increase in salaries of employees other than managerial personnel and its comparison with 
percentile increase in the remuneration of Managerial personnel: Average percentile increase in salaries of employees 
other than Managerial personnel is 17.33% and average increase in the remuneration of Managerial personnel is 3.35% 
(Remunerations of Mr. Vikas Khandelwal, Company Secretary and Mr. Manoj Kumar Dua, Chief Financial Officer have not 
been considered as they were appointed during the Financial Year 2022-23).
6.	
The Company affirms remuneration is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 107 
7.	
The statement showing the names of top ten employees in terms of remuneration drawn in the Company in the 
prescribed form as given under:
Sr. 
No.
Name of 
Employee
Age (Years) Designation
Qualification
Experience 
(Years)
Remuneration 
(Rs. in lakhs)
Date of Com-
mencement of 
Employment
Last 
Employment/ 
Designation
Nature of 
Employment
Shareholding 
in terms of 
Rule 5(2)(iii)
Relation with 
other Directors
1
Mr. Rohtas Goel
61
Chairman & 
Wholetime 
Director*
Diploma in Civil 37
480.00**
08.03.1989
-
Permanent
Not Applicable
Father of Mr. 
Mohit Goel, 
Managing 
Director
2
Mr. Mohit Goel
34
Managing 
Director
Commerce 
Graduate, 
Executive 
Program from 
IIM, Bangalore 
and Summer 
School at 
London School 
of Economics.
11
165.00
21.01.2013
-
Permanent
Not Applicable
Son of Mr. 
Rohtas Goel, 
Chairman
3
Mr. Jatin Goel
30
Director-
Operations
MBA
6
125.83
 01.06.2017
 -
Permanent
Not Applicable
- Son of Mr. 
Rohtas Goel, 
Chairman & 
Non-Executive 
Director, and
- Brother of 
Mr. Mohit Goel, 
Managing 
Director
4
Mr. Ravindra 
Kumar Goel
64
Director 
General
BE/B.Tech, 
MBA
40
120.00
28.06.2019
 -
Permanent
Not Applicable
Not Related
5
Mr. Atul Banshal
50
Director
CA
26
110.32
01.09.2021
Experion 
Developers Pvt 
Ltd.
Permanent
Not Applicable
Not Related
6
Mr. Ram Saran 
Nigam
54
President
 Graduate
24
88.80
24.07.2017
 -
Permanent
Not Applicable
Not Related
7
Ms. Vijayalaxmi
51
President
B.Sc
24
85.72
01.04.2021
-
Permanent
Not Applicable
Not Related
8
Mr. Bhupendra 
Singh
51
President
BA
16
80.46
01.11.2006
-
Permanent
Not Applicable
Not Related
9
Mr. Devendra 
Shankar Vishnoi
53
Vice President
CA
21
73.66
24.12.2007
Sapient 
Informatics 
Pvt. Ltd.
Permanent
Not Applicable
Not Related
10
Mr. Abhinav 
Chand Ajmera
48
President
B.E. 
Mechanical
24
71.64
15.07.2021
Galaxy & 
Sawasdee 
Group
Permanent
Not Applicable
Not Related
* Mr. Rohtas Goel had relinquished the office of Executive Director with effect from the closing of business hours of May 
26, 2023 and has been re-designated as Chairman & Non-Executive Director/ Non-Executive Chairman of the Company 
with effect from May 27, 2023.
** The remuneration paid to Mr. Rohtas Goel, in view of losses, is subject to confirmation/ ratification by the shareholders 
at 34th Annual General Meeting.
108 
Omaxe Limited
Your Company is committed to high standards of the Corporate 
Governance and believes in conducting its business lawfully, 
with integrity, transparency and in an ethical manner in 
order to maximize the values for its various stakeholders i.e. 
shareholders, customers, employees, contractors, vendors 
and public at large. Good Corporate Governance practices 
help in building an environment of trust and confidence 
among all the constituents.
Your Company makes conscious efforts to institutionalize 
good Corporate Governance practices and believes that it 
shall go beyond adherence to the regulatory framework.
The Board of Directors of your Company present the Report 
on Corporate Governance in compliance with provisions of 
Regulation 34(3) read with part C of Schedule V of SEBI (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 
(SEBI LODR Regulations), for the period under review.
1.	
THE 
COMPANY’S 
PHILOSOPHY 
ON 
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
	
At Omaxe, we consider stakeholders as partners in our 
journey forward and we are committed to ensure their 
wellbeing, despite business challenges and economic 
volatilities.
	
As a Company with a strong sense of values and 
commitment, we believe that profitability must go 
hand in hand with a sense of responsibility towards 
all stakeholders. This translates into the philosophy 
of Corporate Governance. The cardinal principles 
such as independence, accountability, responsibility, 
transparency, trusteeship and disclosure serve as means 
for implementing the philosophy of Corporate Governance.
	
The Company is focused on enhancement of long-term 
value creation for all stakeholders without compromising 
on integrity, societal obligations, environment and 
regulatory compliances.
2.	
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
a.	
Composition of Board
	
A Company’s Board is the primary force influencing 
corporate governance. The Board of Directors of your 
Company has an optimum combination of Executive 
Directors, Non-Executive Directors, Woman Director 
and Independent Directors, with demonstrated skill 
sets and relevant experience, which is in conformity 
with Regulation 17 of the SEBI LODR Regulations 
and applicable provisions of Companies Act, 2013. 
The Board members have professional knowledge 
and experience, in diverse fields viz. construction, 
finance, banking, administration, thereby bringing 
about an enabling environment for value creation 
through sustainable business growth. 
	
As on March 31, 2023, the Board of your Company 
consisted of six Directors as indicated below:
S.No.
Name 
of the 
Director
Designation
Category
1.
Mr. Rohtas 
Goel
Chairman & 
Whole Time 
Director
Executive/ 
Promoter*
2.
Mr. Mohit 
Goel
Managing 
Director
Executive
3.
Mr. Vinit 
Goyal
Whole Time 
Director
Executive
4.
Mr. 
Gurnam 
Singh
Independent 
Director
Non-
Executive
5.
Mr. 
Shridhar 
Rao
Independent 
Director
Non-
Executive
6.
Ms. Nishal 
Jain
Independent 
Director
Non-
Executive/ 
Woman
	
* In order to bring more professionalism and 
independence in the Board of Directors of the 
Company and to raise the standard of corporate 
governance in the Company and its Management, 
Mr. Rohtas Goel had relinquished the office of 
Executive Director with effect from the closing of 
business hours of May 26, 2023 and has been re-
designated as Chairman & Non-Executive Director/ 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company with effect 
from May 27, 2023.
	
Further, Mr. Aroon Kumar Aggarwal was inducted 
as 
an 
Additional 
Director 
(Non-Executive 
& 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 109 
Independent), on the Board of Directors, with effect 
from May 27, 2023.
b.	
Board Meetings
	
During the period under review, the Board of Directors 
of your Company met four times i.e. on May 30, 2022, 
August 10, 2022, November 14, 2022 and February 
13, 2023. The necessary quorum was present for 
all the meetings. The required information i.e. 
name of Directors along with category, attendance 
at Board Meetings & last Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”), name of other listed entities in which he/
she is a director and the number of Directorships 
and Committee Chairmanships / Memberships held 
by them in other public limited companies as on 
31.03.2023 are given herein below:
Name & Category of 
Director
Attendance of Board Members at the 
Meetings during FY 2022-23
No. of Directorship 
of Companies 
(Including Omaxe 
Limited) as on 
March 31, 2023
No. of Committees 
(Including Omaxe 
Limited)
Directorship 
in other listed 
Entity & 
Category of 
Directorship
Board Meeting
Last AGM 
dated 
28.09.2022
No. of 
Meetings 
held after 
appoint- 
ment
No. of 
Meetings 
Attended
Public
Private
Chairman
Membership 
(Including 
Chairmanship)
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
Chairman & 
Whole Time 
Director
4
4
Yes
2
11
0
0
Nil
Mr. Mohit Goel 
Managing Director
4
1
No
1
4
0
0
Nil
Mr. Gurnam Singh 
Non-Executive 
& Independent 
Director
4
4
Yes
1
0
2
2
Nil
Mr. Shridhar Rao 
Non-Executive 
& Independent 
Director
4
4
Yes
1
1
0
2
Nil
Ms. Nishal Jain 
Non-Executive & 
Woman
Independent 
Director
4
4
Yes
3
0
0
3
Name: M/s 
Kamdhenu 
Ventures 
Limited 
Category: 
Non- 
Executive & 
Independent
Mr. Vinit Goyal
Whole Time 
Director
4
4
Yes
7
8
0
2
Nil
110 
Omaxe Limited
Notes:
1.	
The Directorship/Committee membership is 
based on the disclosures received from the 
Directors and exclude foreign Companies. 
Further, chairmanship/ membership of only 
Audit and Investor Grievances Cum Stakeholders 
Relationship Committees are indicated.
2.	
Based on the disclosures received, none of the 
Directors on the Board holds directorships in 
more than ten public companies. None of the 
Independent Directors serves as an Independent 
Director in more than seven listed entities as on 
31.03.2023. Further, no Whole-time Director 
serves as an Independent Director in any other 
listed Company.
3.	
As required under Regulation 26(1) of Listing 
Regulations and confirmed by directors, none of 
the Directors are: (i) member of more than 10 
Committees; and (ii) Chairman of more than 5 
Committees.
4.	
None of the Directors are related to each other 
except that Mr. Rohtas Goel, Chairman of the 
Company is father of Mr. Mohit Goel, Managing 
Director of the Company.
5.	
The details of Directors appointment & 
resignation, if any, have been given under the 
head “Composition of Board” in this Corporate 
Governance Report. The profiles of Directors are 
available at the official website of the Company 
i.e. https://www.omaxe.com/investor/board-of-
directors-key-managerial-personnels and brief 
profiles of Directors proposed to be appointed/
re-appointed are appended in the Notice of 34th 
Annual General Meeting.
6.	
The Board of Directors of the Company had 
accepted all recommendation of committees 
of the Board which are mandatorily required, 
during the financial year 2022-23.
c.	
Matrix setting out the skills/expertise/competence of the Board of Directors, pursuant to Regulation Clause 2(h)(i) 
of Para C of Schedule V of SEBI LODR Regulations, as on March 31, 2023:
Skills/Expertise/ 
Competence Required
Mr. Rohtas 
Goel
Mr. Mohit 
Goel
Mr. Vinit 
Goyal
Mr. Gurnam 
Singh
Mr. Shridhar 
Rao
Ms. Nishal 
Jain
Chairman & 
Whole Time 
Director
Managing 
Director
Whole 
Time 
Director
Non- 
Executive & 
Independent 
Director
Non-Executive 
& Independent 
Director
Non-Executive 
& Woman 
Independent 
Director
Sector Knowledge
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
-
Construction 
Management
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
-
Operations Management Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Strategic Planning
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
Yes
Yes
Sales & Marketing
Yes
Yes
-
-
Yes
Yes
Financial Planning & 
Analysis
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Legal Knowledge
Yes
Yes
-
Yes
-
-
Planning & Allocation
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Risk Management
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
-
Digital Technology
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Leadership Development Yes
Yes
-
-
-
Yes
Human Resource 
Development
Yes
Yes
-
-
-
Yes
Corporate Governance
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Investor Relations
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 111 
d.	
Details of shareholding of Board of Directors of 
Omaxe Limited as on March 31, 2023:
Name
Category of 
Director
No. of equity 
shares held 
in Omaxe 
Ltd.
Mr. Rohtas 
Goel
Chairman & Whole 
Time Director
2747250
Mr. Mohit 
Goel
Managing Director
NIL
Mr. Vinit Goyal Whole Time 
Director
NIL
Mr. Gurnam 
Singh
Non-Executive 
& Independent 
Director
NIL
Mr. Shridhar 
Rao
Non-Executive 
& Independent 
Director
NIL
Ms. Nishal 
Jain
Non-Executive 
& Woman 
Independent 
Director
NIL
	
However, subsequent to FY 2022-23, pursuant to 
inter-se transfer of shares amongst immediate 
relatives i.e. from Mr. Rohtas Goel and Mrs. Sushma 
Goel to their sons Mr. Mohit Goel and Mr. Jatin 
Goel, in terms of the provisions SEBI (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) Regulations, 
2011 (Takeover Regulations), currently Mr. Mohit 
Goel holds 15,33,250 equity shares and Mr. Rohtas 
Goel holds 12,14,000 equity shares in the Company.
3.	
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
	
The Company has received disclosures from all the 
Independent Directors that they fulfill conditions 
specified under Section 149(6) of Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 16(1) (b) of SEBI LODR Regulations and 
are Independent of the Management of the Company. 
Based on the declarations received from the Independent 
Directors, the Board of Directors has confirmed that 
they meet the criteria of independence as mentioned 
under Regulation 16(1) (b) of the SEBI LODR Regulations 
and possess high integrity expertise and experience 
including the proficiency required to discharge the duties 
and responsibilities as Directors of the Company.
	
A separate meeting of Independent Directors i.e. Mr. 
Gurnam Singh, Ms. Nishal Jain and Mr. Shridhar Rao, 
was held on February 13, 2023:
-	
To review the performance of Non-Independent 
Directors and the Board as a whole;
-	
To review the performance of the Chairman of the 
Company, taking into account the views of executive 
directors and non-executive directors;
-	
To assess the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow 
of information between the Company management 
and the Board so as to ensure that the Board is 
performing the duties effectively and reasonably.
	
Familiarization Programme for Independent Directors
	
Pursuant to SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, the 
Company has conducted the familiarization program 
for Independent Directors during the year under review. 
The Board members are provided with necessary 
information, documents, reports and internal policies 
to familiarize them with the Company’s procedures 
and practices. The familiarization program aims to 
familiarize the Independent Directors with the Company, 
their roles, rights, responsibilities in the Company, 
nature of the industry in which the Company operates, 
business model of the Company, etc. The Company’s 
Policy of conducting the familiarization Program has 
been disclosed on the website of the Company at https://
www.omaxe.com/investor/details-of-familiarization-
programmes-imparted-to-independent-directors
4.	
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
	
The Company has following Committees of the Board of 
Directors of the Company:
A.	 Audit Committee
B.	 Nomination & Remuneration Committee
C.	 Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
D.	 Investor Grievances cum Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee
E.	 Risk Management Committee
	
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary of all the above 
mentioned Committees. The details of Committees are 
indicated below:
112 
Omaxe Limited
A.	 AUDIT COMMITTEE
(i)	 Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The composition of the Audit Committee of the 
Company is in line with the provisions of Section 177 
of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies 
(Meetings of Board and its Powers) Rules, 2014 
and Regulation 18 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015. As on March 31, 2023, the Audit Committee 
comprised of four Directors, of which Mr. Gurnam 
Singh (Chairperson of the Committee), Mr. Shridhar 
Rao (Member of the Committee) and Ms. Nishal Jain 
(Member of the Committee) are Non-Executive & 
Independent Directors and Mr. Vinit Goyal (Member 
of Committee) is Whole Time Director of the 
Company. The Chairperson of Audit Committee is an 
Independent Director and was present at the Annual 
General Meeting held on September 28, 2022.
	
During the period under review, four meetings of 
Audit Committee were held on May 30, 2022, August 
10, 2022, November 14, 2022 and February 13, 2023. 
The requisite quorum was present in all meetings. 
The details of meetings held and attended by the 
members of the Committee during FY 2022-23 is 
given below:
Name & Category of Director as on 
March 31, 2023
Committee Position
No. of Meetings held 
during tenure
No. of Meetings 
attended
Mr. Gurnam Singh 
(Non-Executive & Independent 
Director)
Chairperson
4
4
Ms. Nishal Jain 
(Non-Executive & Woman 
Independent Director)
Member
4
4
Mr. Shridhar Rao 
(Non-Executive & Independent 
Director) 
Member
(w.e.f. 30.05.2022)
3
3
Mr. Vinit Goyal 
(Whole Time Director)
Member
(w.e.f. 30.05.2022)
3
3
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
(Chairman & Whole Time Director) 
Member
(upto 30.05.2022)
1
1
(ii)	 Brief description of terms of Reference
	
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee 
include:
1.	
Oversight of the company’s financial reporting 
process and the disclosure of its financial 
information to ensure that the financial 
statements are correct, sufficient and credible. 
2.	
Recommending to the Board, the appointment, 
reappointment and, if required, the replacement 
or removal of the statutory auditor and the 
fixation of audit fees/remuneration.
3.	
Review and monitor the auditor’s independence, 
performance and effectiveness of audit process.
4.	
Examination of the financial statement and the 
auditors’ report thereon.
5.	
Approval or any subsequent modification of 
transaction(s) of the Company with related 
party/ (ies);
6.	
Approval of payment to statutory auditors for 
any other services rendered by the statutory 
auditors.
7.	
Scrutiny 
of 
inter-corporate 
loans 
and 
investments;
8.	
Valuation of undertaking or assets of the 
Company, wherever it is necessary;
9.	
Reviewing, with the management, the annual 
financial statements before submission to the 
board for approval, with particular reference to:
a.	
Matters required to be included in the 
Director’s Responsibility Statement to be 
included in the Board’s Report;
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 113 
b.	
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and 
practices and reasons for the same;
c.	
Major 
accounting 
entries 
involving 
estimates based on the exercise of 
judgment by management;
d.	
Significant 
adjustments 
made 
in 
the 
financial statements arising out of audit 
findings;
e.	
Compliance 
with 
listing 
and 
other 
legal requirements relating to financial 
statements
f.	
Disclosure of any related party transactions
g.	
Modified opinion/Qualifications in the draft 
audit report and Limited Review Reports
10.	 Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly 
financial statements before submission to the 
board for approval
11.	 Reviewing, 
with 
the 
management, 
the 
statement of uses / application of funds raised 
through an issue (public issue, rights issue, 
preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds 
utilized for purposes other than those stated 
in the offer document/prospectus/ notice and 
the report submitted by the monitoring agency 
monitoring the utilization of proceeds of a 
public or rights issue, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the Board to take up steps 
in this matter.
12.	 Reviewing, with the management, performance 
of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of 
the internal control systems.
13.	 Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk 
management systems.
14.	 Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit 
function, if any, including the structure of the 
internal audit department, staffing and seniority 
of the official heading the department, reporting 
structure coverage and frequency of internal 
audit.
15.	 Discussion with internal auditors any significant 
findings and follow up there on.
16.	 Reviewing 
the 
findings 
of 
any 
internal 
investigations by the internal auditors into 
matters where there is suspected fraud or 
irregularity or a failure of internal control 
systems of a material nature and reporting the 
matter to the board.
17.	 Discussion with statutory auditors before the 
audit commences, about the nature and scope 
of audit as well as post-audit discussion to 
ascertain any area of concern.
18.	 To look into the reasons for substantial defaults 
in the payment to the depositors, debenture 
holders, shareholders (in case of non-payment 
of declared dividends) and creditors.
19. To review the functioning of the Whistle Blower/ 
Vigil mechanism.
20. Approval of appointment of CFO (i.e., the Whole 
Time Finance Director or any other person 
heading the finance function or discharging 
that function) after assessing the qualifications, 
experience & background, etc. of the candidate.
21.	 The Audit Committee may call for the comments 
of the auditors about internal control system, the 
scope of the audit, including the observations of 
the auditors and review of financial statement 
before their submission to the Board and may 
also discuss any related issues with the internal 
and statutory auditors and management of the 
Company.
22.	 Reviewing the utilization of loans and/ or 
advances from/investment by the holding 
company in the subsidiary exceeding rupees 100 
crores or 10% of the asset size of the subsidiary, 
whichever is lower including existing loans / 
advances / investments existing.
23.	 To consider and comment on rationale, cost-
benefits and impact of schemes involving 
merger, demerger, amalgamation etc., on the 
listed entity and its shareholders.
114 
Omaxe Limited
24.	 The Audit Committee shall also perform other 
functions/ roles as may be specified/ prescribed/
applicable under Companies Act, 2013, rules 
made thereunder, including any amendment 
and Listing Agreement with the stock exchanges 
from time to time.
	
The Audit Committee shall mandatorily review the 
following information:
1.	
Management 
discussion 
and 
analysis 
of 
financial condition and results of operations;
2.	
Statement 
of 
significant 
related 
party 
transactions (as defined by the audit committee), 
submitted by management;
3.	
Management letters / letters of internal control 
weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors, if 
any;
4.	
Internal audit reports relating to internal control 
weaknesses;
5.	
The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the chief internal auditor shall 
be subject to review by the audit committee.
6.	
Statement of deviations, if any: 
a.	
Quarterly 
statement 
of 
deviation(s) 
including report of monitoring agency, if 
applicable, submitted to stock exchange(s) 
in terms of Regulation 32(1).
b.	
Annual statement of funds utilized for 
purposes other than those stated in the 
offer document/ prospectus/notice in terms 
of Regulation 32(7).
B.	 NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
(i)	 Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The composition, scope and powers of the 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee (NRC) of 
the Board of Directors are in conformity with the 
provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 19 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015. As on March 31, 2023, this Committee 
comprised of four Directors, of which three were 
Independent Directors, including the Chairman of 
the Committee viz Mr. Gurnam Singh (as Chairperson 
of the Committee), Ms. Nishal Jain and Mr. Shridhar 
Rao (as Members of the Committee), and Mr. Rohtas 
Goel, being Chairman, was also a member of the 
Committee.
	
During the year under review, four meetings of this 
committee were held on May 30, 2022, August 10, 
2022, November 14, 2022 and February 13, 2023. 
The requisite quorum was present at the meeting. 
The details of meeting held and attended by the 
members of the Committee during FY 2022-23 is 
given below:
Name & Category of  
Director as on March 31, 2023
Committee 
Position
No. of Meetings held 
during tenure
No. of Meetings 
attended
Mr. Gurnam Singh 
(Non- Executive & Independent Director)
Chairperson
4
4
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
(Chairman & Whole Time Director)
Member
4
4
Ms. Nishal Jain 
(Non- Executive & Woman Independent Director)
Member
4
4
Mr. Shridhar Rao
(Non-Executive & Independent Director)
Member
4
4
(ii)	 Brief description of terms of Reference
	
The role of the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee inter-alia includes the following:
1.	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
shall identify persons who are qualified to 
become directors and who may be appointed 
in senior management in accordance with the 
criteria laid down, recommend to the Board 
their appointment and removal.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 115 
2. 
Whether to extend or continue the term of 
appointment of the independent director, on the 
basis of the report of performance evaluation of 
independent directors.
3.	
The Committee shall specify the manner for 
effective evaluation of performance of Board, its 
committees and individual directors to be carried 
out either by the Board, by the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee or by an independent 
external agency and review its implementation 
and compliance.
4.	
The Committee shall formulate the criteria for 
determining qualifications, positive attributes 
and independence of a director.
5.	
Recommend to the Board a policy, relating to 
the remuneration for directors, key managerial 
personnel and other employee including ESOP, 
pension rights and any other compensation 
payment.
6.	
For every appointment of an independent 
director, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee shall evaluate the balance of skills, 
knowledge and experience on the Board and 
on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a 
description of the role and capabilities required 
of an Independent Director. The person 
recommended to the Board for appointment 
as an Independent Director shall have the 
capabilities identified in such description. For 
the purpose of identifying suitable candidates, 
the Committee:
a.	
use the services of any external agencies, if 
required;
b.	
consider candidates from a wide range of 
backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; 
and
c.	
consider the time commitments of the 
candidates.
7.	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
shall also formulate the criteria for evaluation 
of Independent Directors and the Board and 
also laid down the policy on Board’s diversity
8.	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
shall 
recommend 
to 
the 
board, 
all 
remuneration, in whatever form, payable to 
senior management, Managerial personnel and 
Directors of the Company.
9.	
Framing 
the 
Employees 
Share 
Purchase 
Scheme (ESPS)/ Employees Stock Option 
Scheme (ESOS) Scheme and recommending 
the same to the Board/ shareholders for their 
approval and implementation/administration 
& monitoring of the scheme approved by the 
shareholders.
10.	 Suggesting to Board/ shareholders changes in 
the ESPS/ ESOS.
11.	 The Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
shall also perform other functions/roles as may 
be specified/prescribed/ applicable under the 
Companies Act, 2013, rules made thereunder, 
including 
any 
amendment 
and 
Listing 
Regulations with the stock exchanges from time 
to time.
	
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee 
coordinates 
and 
oversees 
the 
annual 
self- 
evaluation of the Board and of individual Directors. 
It also reviews the performance of all the executive 
Directors on such intervals as may be necessary on 
the basis of the detailed performance parameters 
set for each executive Director. The Nomination 
& Remuneration Committee may also regularly 
evaluate the usefulness of such performance 
parameters, and make necessary amendments.
(iii)	 Remuneration Policy for Directors
	
The Remuneration Policy of the Company is 
directed towards rewarding performance, based 
on review of achievements on periodical basis. 
The 
Remuneration 
Policy 
is 
in 
consonance 
with the existing Industry norms. The Policy on 
Appointment and Remuneration of Directors is 
annexed to this report. The same is also available 
on the website of the Company under the weblink 
116 
Omaxe Limited
https://www.omaxe.com/investor/criteria-of-
making-payments-to-non-executive-directors.
(iv)	 Performance evaluation criteria for Independent 
Directors
	
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the SEBI LODR 
Regulations, the Nomination & Remuneration 
Committee 
has 
laid 
down 
the 
criteria 
for 
performance evaluation of Independent Directors 
and Executive Directors, which inter-alia covers level 
of engagement and contribution, independence of 
judgment, safeguarding the interest of the Company 
and its minority shareholders etc. The performance 
evaluation of the Independent Directors was 
carried out by the Non-Independent Directors. The 
performance evaluation of the Chairman and of the 
Non-Independent Directors was carried out by the 
Independent Directors in their separate meeting 
held on February 13, 2023. The Directors expressed 
their satisfaction with the evaluation process.
C.	 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE 
(CSR COMMITTEE)
(i)	 Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
As on March 31, 2023, the CSR Committee comprised 
of three Directors of which Ms. Nishal Jain 
(Chairperson of the Committee), Mr. Shridhar Rao 
(Member of the Committee) are Non-Executive & 
Independent Directors and Mr. Vinit Goyal (Member 
of the Committee) is the Whole Time Director of the 
Company. The composition of CSR Committee is in 
compliance with the provisions of Section 135 of the 
Companies Act, 2013.
	
During the year under review, one meeting of CSR 
Committee was held on May 30, 2022, wherein 
requisite quorum was present. The details of 
meeting held and attended by the members of the 
Committee during FY 2022-23 is given below:
Name & Category of Director as on March 31, 
2023
Committee Position
No. of Meetings 
held during tenure
No. of Meetings 
attended
Ms. Nishal Jain
(Non- Executive & Woman Independent Director)
Chairperson 
1
1
Mr. Shridhar Rao
(Non- Executive & Independent Director)
Member
1
1
Mr. Vinit Goyal
(Whole Time Director)
Member
(w.e.f. 30.05.2022)
0
0
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
(Chairman & Whole Time Director)
Member
(upto 30.05.2022)
1
1
Mr. Mohit Goel
(Managing Director)
Member 
(upto 30.05.2022)
1
1
(ii)	 Brief description of terms of Reference
	
The Committee functions in accordance with the 
terms of reference as specified under the Act, and 
as may be specified by the Board from time to time, 
which inter-alia includes:
1.	
Formulate and recommend to the Board, a 
Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which 
shall indicate the activities to be undertaken by 
the Company as specified in Schedule VII of the 
Companies Act, 2013;
2.	
Ensure the activities included by a company 
in its CSR policy are related to the activities of 
Schedule VII of Companies Act, 2013;
3.	
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be 
incurred on the activities;
4.	
Develop internal operating structure and 
transparent monitoring mechanism; 
5.	
Periodically monitor the implementation of CSR 
Policy of the Company;
6.	
Formulation of Annual Action Plan in accordance 
with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013.
	
The disclosure as per Companies (Corporate 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 117 
Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 is made in 
prescribed format which is appended as Annexure 
II to the Board’s Report forming part of this Annual 
Report. The CSR Policy is also available on the 
website of the Company under the web link https://
www.omaxe.com/investor/other-codes-policies
D.	 INVESTOR 
GRIEVANCES 
CUM 
STAKEHOLDERS 
RELATIONSHIP COMMITTEE (IGSRC)
(i)	 Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
The composition of the IGSRC is in line with the 
provisions of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 20 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015. As on March 31, 2023, IGSRC comprised 
of three Directors, of which Mr. Gurnam Singh 
(Chairperson of the Committee), Mr. Shridhar Rao 
(Member of the Committee) are Non-Executive & 
Independent Directors and Mr. Vinit Goyal (Member 
of the Committee) is Whole Time Director of the 
Company. 
	
During the year under review, one meeting of IGSRC 
was held on May 30, 2022 wherein requisite quorum 
was present. The details of meetings held and 
attended by the members of the Committee during 
FY 2022-23 is given below:
Name & Category of Director as on March 
31, 2023
Committee Position
No. of Meetings held 
during tenure
No. of Meetings 
attended
Mr. Gurnam Singh
(Non-Executive & Independent Director)
Chairperson 
1
1
Mr. Vinit Goyal
(Whole Time Director)
Member 
1
1
Mr. Shridhar Rao
(Non- Executive & Independent Director) 
Member
(w.e.f 30.05.2022)
0
0
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
(Chairman & Whole Time Director) 
Member
(upto 30.05.2022)
1
1
Mr. Mohit Goel
(Managing Director)
Member
(upto 30.05.2022)
1
1
(ii)	 Brief description of terms of Reference
	
The role of Investor Grievances cum Stakeholders 
Relationship Committee inter-alia includes the 
following:
1.	
Resolving the grievances of the security holders 
of the listed entity including complaints related 
to transfer/transmission of shares non-receipt 
of annual report, non-receipt of declared 
dividends, issue of new/duplicate certificates, 
general meetings etc.;
2.	
Review of measures taken for effective exercise 
of voting rights by shareholders;
3.	
Review of adherence to the service standards 
adopted by the Company in respect of various 
services being rendered by the Registrar & 
Share Transfer Agent;
4.	
Review of the various measures and initiatives 
taken by the Company for reducing the quantum 
of unclaimed dividends and ensuring timely 
receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/
statutory notices by the shareholders of the 
Company.
(iii)	 Shareholders’ Grievances
	
During the FY 2022-23, opening balance of 
the complaints was Nil and 3 complaints were 
received from the shareholders, all of which were 
satisfactorily attended and resolved. Further, no 
valid request for transfer/ transmission of shares 
was pending as on March 31, 2023.
	
Name and Designation of Compliance Officer
	
Mr. Vikas Khandelwal, Senior Vice President & 
Company Secretary of the Company is designated as 
the Compliance Officer in terms of the provisions of 
Regulation 6 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015.
118 
Omaxe Limited
E.	 RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
(i)	 Composition, Meetings and Attendance
	
As on March 31, 2023, the Risk Management 
Committee comprised of five members out of which 
three Members are Directors, of which Mr. Gurnam 
Singh (Chairperson of the Committee), Mr. Shridhar 
Rao (Member of the Committee) are Non-Executive & 
Independent Directors, and Mr. Vinit Goyal (Member 
of the Committee) is the Whole Time Director. 
The other members of the committee are Mr. Atul 
Banshal and Mr. Siddharth Katyal. The Committee’s 
composition is in compliance with the provisions of 
Regulation 21 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015.
	
During the year under review, two meetings of this 
Committee were held on May 30, 2022 and November 
14, 2022 wherein requisite quorum was present.
	
The details of meeting held and attended by the 
members of the Committee during FY 2022-23 are 
given below:
Name & Category of  
Director as on March 31, 2023
Committee 
Position
No. of Meetings 
held during tenure
No. of Meetings 
attended
Mr. Gurnam Singh
(Non- Executive & Independent Director)
Chairperson
2
2
Mr. Shridhar Rao
(Non- Executive & Independent Director)
Member
2
2
Mr. Vinit Goyal
(Whole Time Director) 
Member
(w.e.f. 30.05.2022)
1
1
Mr. Atul Banshal
Member
(w.e.f. 30.05.2022)
1
1
Mr. Siddharth Katyal 
Member
(w.e.f. 30.05.2022)
1
0
Mr. Rohtas Goel 
(Chairman & Whole Time Director) 
Member
upto 30.05.2022
1
1
Mr. Amit Mehta 
Member
(upto 30.05.2022)
1
0
(ii)	 Brief description of terms of Reference
	
The Committee functions in accordance with the 
terms of reference as specified under the SEBI 
(LODR) Regulations, 2015 and applicable provisions 
under the Companies Act, 2013, if any and as may 
be specified by the Board from time to time, which 
inter-alia includes:
1.	
The Committee shall be responsible for 
framing, implementing and monitoring the 
risk management plan, assign the roles and 
responsibilities in relation to enterprise risk 
management, ensuring that the chosen risk 
approach is aligned to the organizational vision, 
mission, strategy, goals and objectives etc.
2.	
To formulate a detailed risk management policy 
which shall include:
a.	
A framework for identification of internal 
and external risks specifically faced by the 
Company, in particular including financial, 
operational, 
sectoral, 
sustainability 
(particularly, ESG related risks), information, 
cyber security risks or any other risk as may 
be determined by the Committee.
b.	
Measures for risk mitigation including 
systems and processes for internal control 
of identified risks.
c.	
Business continuity plan.
3.	
To ensure that appropriate methodology, 
processes and systems are in place to monitor 
and evaluate risks associated with the business 
of the Company;
4.	
To monitor and oversee implementation of the 
risk management policy, including evaluating 
the adequacy of risk management systems;
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 119 
5.	
To periodically review the risk management 
policy, at least once in two years, including by 
considering the changing industry dynamics 
and evolving complexity;
6.	
To keep the board of directors informed about 
the nature and content of its discussions, 
recommendations and actions to be taken;
7.	
The appointment, removal and terms of 
remuneration of the Chief Risk Officer (if 
any) shall be subject to review by the Risk 
Management Committee.
8.	
The 
Risk 
Management 
Committee 
shall 
coordinate its activities with other Committees, 
in instances where there is any overlap with 
activities of such committees, as per the 
framework laid down by the board of directors.
	
The policy on Risk Management of the Company is 
annexed to this report. The same is also available 
on the website of the Company under the weblink 
https://www.omaxe.com/investor/other-codes-policies
5.	
NON-MANDATORY COMMITTEES OF THE COMPANY
	
In addition the above statutory committees, the Board 
has also constituted Share Transfer Committee for 
approving the shares transfer/ transmission requests of 
the shareholders, Finance Committee for consideration 
and approval of matters of financial nature, Legal 
Committee for dealing with various matters of legal 
nature, Administrative Committee for dealing with 
various administrative and operational matters and 
Property Registration & Transfer Committee for dealing 
with the matters related to execution and registration 
of conveyance/ lease/ sale deed and other related 
documents etc. in respect of various projects of the 
Company.
6.	
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
	
Particulars of past three Annual General Meetings (AGMs)/ Extra-ordinary General Meeting (EGM)
Year
Venue
Date, Day & Time
Special Resolution Passed
Annual General Meeting
During
2022-23
Video Conferencing/ 
Other Audio-Visual 
Means (VC/ OAVM)
September 28, 2022
(Wednesday) at 12:00 
Noon
1.	 Re-Appointment of Mr. Rohtas Goel as Whole Time 
Director under the Designation of Chairman & Whole 
Time Director of the company for a period of five years 
with effect from 01.04.2023.
2.	 Waiver of right to recover excess remuneration paid to 
Mr. Rohtas Goel during the financial year 2021-22 
During
2021-22
Video Conferencing/ 
Other Audio-Visual 
Means (VC/ OAVM)
September 30, 2021
(Thursday) at 12:00 
Noon
1.	 Payment of Remuneration to Mr. Mohit Goel (DIN: 
02451363), CEO & Whole Time Director of the Company 
in case of Absence/inadequacy of Profits;
2.	 Appointment of Mr. Vinit Goyal (DIN:03575020) as Whole 
Time Director of the Company
During
2020-21
Video Conferencing/ 
Other Audio-Visual 
Means (VC/ OAVM)
December 24, 2020 
(Thursday)
at 12:00 Noon
1.	 Private 
Placement 
of 
Secured 
/ 
Unsecured 
/ 
Redeemable/ Non-Redeemable/ Convertible/ Non- 
Convertible / Listed/ Unlisted Debentures and/or other 
securities under Section 42 and 71 of Companies Act, 
2013;
2.	 Issue, offer and allot equity shares, QDRS, ADRS, 
foreign currency convertible bonds, convertible or non- 
convertible debentures and such other securities.
Extra-ordinary General Meeting
During
2021-22
Video Conferencing/ 
Other Audio-Visual 
Means (VC/ OAVM)
October 27, 2021
(Wednesday) at 12:00 
Noon
None.
120 
Omaxe Limited
7.	
POSTAL BALLOT
	
No Postal Ballot was conducted during the Financial 
Year 2022-23.
8.	
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
(i)	 Publication of Results: 
The 
quarterly/annual 
results of the Company are usually published in 
the newspaper, like Business Standard or Financial 
Express and Jansatta. Results are also available on 
Company’s website at www.omaxe.com.
(ii)	 News, Release etc.: The Company has its own website 
at www.omaxe.com, and all vital information relating 
to the Company and its performance including 
financial results, corporate announcements, press 
releases pertaining to important developments, 
performance updates and corporate presentations 
etc. are regularly posted on the website. The 
Company’s website contains separate dedicated 
section “Investors” where Shareholders & Media 
related information is available. All intimations/
information filed with Stock Exchanges are also 
available on the websites of BSE Ltd. (BSE) and 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE) for 
public dissemination.
(iii)	 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Report: The 
same has been included in a separate section, which 
forms a part of this Annual Report.
9.	
OTHER DISCLOSURES
a)	 Materially significant related party transactions
	
All transactions entered into with the related parties 
as defined under the Companies Act, 2013 and 
Regulation 23 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, 
as amended, during the year under review, were 
approved by the Audit Committee and the Board/
Shareholders of the Company, wherever required, 
and generally were at arm’s length and in the ordinary 
course of business. The transactions which were 
repetitive in nature were approved through omnibus 
route by the Audit Committee. The Company has not 
entered into any materially significant related party 
transaction that have potential conflict with the 
interest of the Company at large.
	
A comprehensive list of Related Parties and Related 
Party Transactions has been given in Note No. 53 
and Note No. 55 of Significant Accounting Policies 
and Notes on Standalone Financial Statements and 
Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively, 
forming part of this Annual Report.
	
The Board of Directors has laid down a policy 
on related party transactions and its materiality, 
setting-out the manner how the Company will 
address related party transactions, including the 
material transactions based on the threshold limits 
applicable to such transactions in accordance 
with the requirements of the Companies Act, 
2013 and the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015. 
The said policy is available on the website of the 
Company and may be accessed at the web link 
https://www.omaxe.com/investor/policy-on-dealing-
with-related-party-transactions.
b)	 Dividend Distribution Policy
	
The 
Company 
has 
formulated 
a 
Dividend 
Distribution 
Policy 
in 
accordance 
with 
the 
requirement of Regulation 43A of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015. The objective of this policy is 
to establish the parameters to be considered by 
the Board of Directors of your Company before 
declaring or recommending dividend. The said 
policy is available at Company’s website at 
https://www.omaxe.com/investor/dividend-distribution-policy.
c)	
Compliances, Strictures and Penalties
	
The Company has complied with various Rules and 
Regulations prescribed by the Stock Exchanges, 
SEBI and other statutory authorities relating to 
the capital markets as and when and to the extent 
it becomes applicable to the Company, during 
last three years, except with a minor delay in 
appointment of director and composition of Board 
of Directors of the Company, in terms of Regulation 
17 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, for which fine 
was imposed by the Stock Exchanges (BSE Ltd. & 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.), details of are 
indicated below: 
Financial Year
Particulars
Stock Exchange
Fine
2021-22
Non- compliance of
Regulation 17(1)(a) & (b) of 
SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015
BSE Ltd. & 
National Stock Exchange of 
India Ltd.
Rs. 7,25,700/- by each 
Stock Exchanges (including 
GST@18%)
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 121 
	
No penalties or strictures have been imposed 
by Stock Exchanges, SEBI and other statutory 
authorities relating to the capital markets, on the 
Company in last three years, except as above. Further, 
no significant or material orders were passed by the 
Regulators or Courts or Tribunals which impact the 
going concern status and company’s operations in 
future.
d)	 Whistle Blower Policy/ Vigil Mechanism
	
Pursuant to Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 
and Regulation 22 of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015, the Company has in place a whistle blower 
policy for establishing a vigil mechanism for 
Directors and employees to report instances of 
unethical and/ or improper conduct and to take 
suitable steps to investigate and correct the same. 
Directors, employees, vendors, customers or any 
person having dealings with the Company/ subsidiary 
(ies) may report non-compliance of the policy to 
the noticed persons. The details of the Whistle 
Blower Policy are available on the website of the 
Company at https://www.omaxe.com/investor/vigil-
mechanism-whistle-blower-policy. The Directors 
and management personnel maintain confidentiality 
of such reporting and ensure that the whistle 
blowers are not subjected to any discrimination. No 
person was denied access to the Audit Committee 
during the Financial Year 2022-23.
e)	 Details 
of 
compliance 
with 
mandatory 
requirements and adoption of the non-mandatory 
requirements	
	
The Company has complied with all the mandatory 
requirements of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015. 
Further, the details of adoption of other discretionary 
requirements of the said Regulations are provided 
below:
i.	
Non-Executive Chairman’s Office:
	
Not applicable, as during the period under 
review, Mr. Rohtas Goel was an Executive 
Chairman. 
	
However, since with effect from closing of 
business hours on May 26, 2023, Mr. Rohtas 
Goel had relinquished his office of Executive 
Director and was re-designated as Chairman 
& Non-Executive Director (i.e. Non-Executive 
Chairman) of the Company with effect from May 
27, 2023, this discretionary requirement has 
now been adopted by your Company.
ii.	
Separate positions of Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer/Managing Director:
	
The positions of Chairman and Managing 
Director were held by different persons during 
the period under review. However, Mr. Rohtas 
Goel, Chairman, is the father of Mr. Mohit Goel, 
Managing Director of the Company.
iii.	 Shareholders’ Rights:
	
The quarterly/ half-yearly/ annual financial 
results of the Company are timely disclosed 
to the Stock Exchanges where the equity 
shares of the Company are listed and are also 
published in newspapers in accordance with 
the provisions of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 
2015. Further, these results are also posted 
on the website of the Company at www.omaxe.
com. In view of same, individual communication 
of quarterly/ half-yearly/ annual financial 
results to the shareholders is not being made. 
Further, information pertaining to the important 
developments in the Company are brought to 
the knowledge of the public at large, investors 
and shareholders of the Company, in particular, 
through communications sent to the stock 
exchanges, through press releases in leading 
newspapers and through regular uploads made 
on Company’s website.
iv.	 Unmodified Opinion in Audit Report:
	
The Auditors’ Reports on financial statement 
of the Company for the financial year ended 
on 31st March 2023 ( both, the Standalone and 
Consolidated) do not contain any qualification 
from the Statutory Auditors, and it shall be the 
endeavor of the Company to continue the trend 
by building up accounting systems and controls 
which ensure complete adherence to the 
applicable accounting standards and practices 
obviating the possibility of the Auditors qualifying 
122 
Omaxe Limited
their report as to the audited accounts.
v.	
Reporting of Internal Auditor
	
The Internal Auditors of the Company directly 
report to Audit Committee and has direct access 
to the Audit Committee.
f)	
Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and 
hedging activities
	
Not applicable as Company do not deal in 
commodities and commodity market.
g)	 Policy for determining Material Subsidiary
	
The 
Company 
has 
formulated 
a 
policy 
for 
determining Material Subsidiary and the same is 
available on website of the Company at https://
www.omaxe.com/investor/policy-for-determining-
material-subsidiaries.
h)	 Details of utilization of funds raised through 
preferential allotment or qualified institutions 
placement
	
During the Financial Year 2022-23, the Company had 
not raised any funds through preferential allotment 
or qualified institutions placement.
i)	
Certification from Company Secretary in Practice
	
As required under Clause 10(i) of Para C of Schedule 
V of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, the Company 
has obtained a certificate from M/s DMK Associates, 
Company Secretaries in practice certifying that none 
of the Directors on the Board of the Company has 
been debarred or disqualified from being appointed 
or continuing as Directors of companies by the SEBI, 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) or any such 
other statutory authority. A copy of the certificate is 
annexed herewith forming part of this report.
j)	
Fees paid to Statutory Auditors
	
Total fees for all services paid by the listed entity 
and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to the 
statutory auditor and all entities in the network firm/
network entity, of which the statutory auditor is a part, 
pursuant to clause 10(k) of the Para C of Schedule V 
of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 is available under 
Note No. 49 of Consolidated Financial Statements of 
Company for the financial year 2022-23.
k)	 Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace
	
The Company has Internal Complaints Committee 
(ICC), in line with the requirements of the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and all female 
employees are covered under the Policy. The 
Company prohibits any form of sexual harassment 
and any such incidence is immediately investigated 
and appropriate action taken in the matter against 
the offending employee(s) based on the nature 
and the seriousness of the offence. The Company 
has in place, a policy on Prevention, Prohibition 
and Redressal of Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace and matters connected therewith 
or incidental thereto covering all the aspects as 
contained under ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women 
at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) 
Act, 2013 and Rules made thereunder.
	
Further, disclosures required in relation to the Sexual 
Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 are as follows:
Particulars
Number of 
cases
Complaints filed during the 
financial year
Nil
Complaints disposed of during 
the financial year
Nil
Complaints pending as on end 
of the financial year
Nil
l)	
Loans and Advances
	
The disclosure with respect to Loans and Advances 
in the nature of Loans to Firms/ Companies in which 
Directors are interested is set out in Note No. 53 
& 55 of the Standalone and Consolidated Financial 
Statements respectively forming part of this Annual 
Report.
m)	 Details of material subsidiaries 	
	
The details of material subsidiaries as per Clause 
10(n) of Para C of Schedule V of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015 are as under:
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 123 
S. No.
Name of Subsidiary
Date & Place of 
Incorporation
Name of Statutory 
Auditor
Date of appointment of 
statutory auditor
1.
Omaxe New Chandiagarh 
Developers Private 
Limited
12/04/2006
Jaipur, Rajasthan*
BSD & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, New Delhi
Date of appointment: 
26/09/2017
Date of Re-appointment: 
30/09/2022
2.
Omaxe Buildhome 
Limited
04/08/2006 
Delhi
BSD & Co., Chartered 
Accountants, New Delhi
Date of appointment: 
26/09/2017
Date of Re-appointment: 
30/09/2022
	
*Present registered office is situated in the state of Delhi
n)	 Code of Conduct to Regulate, Monitor and Report 
Trading by Insiders
 
With a view to prevent trading of securities of the 
Company by an insider on the basis of unpublished 
price sensitive information and pursuant to the 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, as amended, 
the Company has put in place a code of conduct 
to regulate, monitor the trading by designated 
persons and their immediate relatives, adherence 
to SEBI applicable guidelines in letter and spirit 
and preserving the confidentiality and preventing 
the misuse of any unpublished price sensitive 
information.
10.	 GENERAL INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS
a.	
Date, Time and Venue of Annual General Meeting 
(AGM)
	
The 34th AGM of the Company would be held on 
the day, date and time as mentioned in the Notice 
convening the said AGM. The Company is conducting 
AGM through Video Conferencing/ Other Audio-
Visual Means (VC/OAVM) pursuant to MCA Circulars 
dated May 5, 2020, January 13, 2021 and December 
28, 2022 and there is no requirement of having a 
common venue for the AGM. 
b.	
Company Registration Details
	
The Company is registered in the State of Haryana, 
India, and the Corporate Identity Number (CIN) 
allotted to the Company by the Ministry of Corporate 
Affairs (MCA) is L74899HR1989PLC051918.
c.	
Financial Year
	
The financial year of the Company is a period 
of twelve months beginning on 1st of April every 
calendar year and ending on 31st of March of the 
following calendar year.
	
Financial Calendar 2023-24 (tentative and subject 
to change)
First Quarterly Results on August 10, 2023
Second Quarterly 
Results
on or before November 
14, 2023
Third Quarterly 
Results
on or before February 14, 
2024
Annual results
on or before May 30, 
2024
d.	
Date of Book Closure
	
The date of Book Closure shall be September 23, 
2023 to September 29, 2023 (both days inclusive).
e.	
Dividend Payment Date, if declared
i)	
Preference Shares
	
The Board of Directors has recommended 
dividend at the rate of 0.1% on 25,00,00,000 
unlisted 
“0.1% 
Non-Cumulative, 
Non-
Convertible, Redeemable Preference Shares” 
having face value of Rs.10/- each for the 
Financial Year ended 31.03.2023. The same, 
if declared at the ensuing Annual General 
Meeting, shall be paid within a period of 30 days 
from the date of declaration.
ii)	 Equity Shares
	
The Board of Directors after considering 
the financial statements, has decided not to 
124 
Omaxe Limited
recommend any Dividend on equity shares 
of the Company for the Financial Year ended 
March 31, 2023. Hence, payment date shall not 
be applicable.
f.	
Listing on Stock Exchange
	
The equity shares of your Company continue to be 
listed on the following Stock Exchanges:
-	
BSE Ltd (BSE): Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Dalal Street, Mumbai – 400 001
-	
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE): 
“Exchange Plaza”, Bandra-Kurla Complex, 
Bandra (E), Mumbai – 400 051
	
The Company has paid annual listing fees for the 
financial year 2022-23 to BSE & NSE. The Company 
has also paid the Annual Custody Fees to National 
Securities Depository Limited (‘NSDL’) and Central 
Depository Services (India) Limited (‘CDSL’) for the 
period under review.
g.	
Stock Code on Stock Exchanges:
BSE Ltd.
532880
National Stock Exchange of 
India Ltd.
OMAXE
International Securities 
Identification Number (ISIN) of 
Equity Shares
INE800H01010
h.	 Market Price Data:
	
Monthly high and low market price data of Equity 
Shares traded on Stock Exchange(s):
Month
NSE
BSE
High 
Price 
(Rs.)
Low 
Price 
(Rs.)
High 
Price 
(Rs.)
Low 
Price 
(Rs.)
Apr-2022
113.70
80.30
113.85
80.20
May-2022
108.70
84.05
109.00
84.50
Jun-2022
96.50
77.35
96.10
81.50
Jul-2022
114.75
83.55
114.75
83.65
Aug-2022
108.90
97.45
109.50
95.80
Sep-2022
112.40
81.40
112.35
89.10
Oct-2022
110.20
85.80
106.00
86.05
Nov-2022
91.25
67.25
91.75
68.00
Dec-2022
86.40
67.00
86.15
66.55
Jan-2023
75.65
64.35
75.60
64.00
Feb-2023
67.90
56.25
67.85
56.20
Mar-2023
60.00
45.20
61.00
49.61
i.	
Performance of the Company in comparison to broad based indices:
a. 	 Company’s share price as compared to BSE SENSEX
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 125 
j.	
Registrar & Share Transfer Agent
	
M/s Link Intime India Private Limited is the Registrar 
and Share Transfer Agent (RTA) of the Company for 
handling all the matters related to the equity share 
related matters both in physical and dematerialized 
mode and for other correspondence. The contact 
details of the RTA are indicated below:
	
M/s Link Intime India Private Limited
	
(Unit: Omaxe Limited)– Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot 
No. NH-2, C-1, Block, LSC, Near Savitri Market, 
Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058
	
Tel No: +91 011-41410592, 93, 94
	
E-mail id: delhi@linkintime.co.in
	
Website: www.linkintime.co.in
k.	
Share Transfer System
	
M/s Link Intime India Private Limited processes 
the share transfer/transmission requests received 
in physical form and the same are approved by 
Share Transfer Committee constituted by Board of 
Directors within the statutory timeline.
l.	
Distribution of Shareholding by size as on March 31, 2023
Range of Equity Shares
No. of Share 
holders
Percentage of Total 
Shareholders
No. of Shares
Percentage of Total 
Shares
Upto 500
49,425
94.91
29,18,818
1.60
501-1000
1,245
2.39
9,66,643
0.53
1001-2000
624
1.20
9,18,857
0.50
2001-3000
215
0.41
5,46,757
0.30
3001-4000
100
0.19
3,56,449
0.19
4001-5000
80
0.15
3,74,835
0.21
5001-10000
145
0.28
10,63,866
0.58
10001 & Above
244
0.47
17,57,54,315
96.09
Total
	
52,078
100.00
18,29,00,540
100.00
m.	 Dematerialization of shares and liquidity
	
The shares of the Company are tradable compulsorily 
in demat form and are available for trading under both 
the depositories i.e. National Securities Depository 
Ltd. (NSDL) & Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. 
(CDSL). As on March 31, 2023, 99.99% equity shares 
of the Company representing 18,29,00,137 shares 
out of a total of 18,29,00,540 equity shares, were held 
in dematerialized form and the balance 403 equity 
shares were held in physical form.
b. 	 Company’s share price as compared to NSE NIFTY 50
126 
Omaxe Limited
	
The International Security Identification Number 
(ISIN) allotted to the Company’s equity shares is 
INE800H01010. The Company’s shares are actively 
traded on both the exchanges i.e. BSE Ltd. and 
National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
	
The Company obtained yearly certificate from 
a Company Secretary in practice confirming 
compliance with the share transfer formalities as 
required under Regulation 40(9) of SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, and filed copy of such certificate 
with the Stock Exchanges.
n.	
Outstanding GDRs /ADRs /Warrants or any 
Convertible instruments, conversion date and 
likely impact on equity
	
The Company does not have any outstanding ADRs, 
GDRs or any other convertible instruments.
o.	
Plant Locations
	
The Company is engaged in real estate and allied 
activities, hence does not have any manufacturing or 
processing plants.
p.	
Address for Correspondence:
	
Registered Office: 19-B, First Floor, Omaxe Celebration 
Mall, Sohna Road, Gurugram, Haryana-122001
	
Corporate Office: 7, Local Shopping Centre, Kalkaji, 
New Delhi - 110019
	
Mr. Vikas Khandelwal, Senior Vice President & 
Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer as per 
Regulation 6 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015 and 
Investors’ complaint may also be addressed to him 
at the following address:
	
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
	
Omaxe Limited
	
Corporate Office: Omaxe House 7, Local Shopping 
Centre, Kalkaji, New Delhi-110019 
	
Ph. No: 011-41896680-85
	
Email: secretarial_1@omaxe.com
q.	
Credit Ratings
	
The details of Credit Rating assigned by CARE 
Ratings Limited are indicated below:
Instrument
Rating revised (w.e.f. 
11.08.2022)
Fixed Deposit 
Programme
CARE BBB- (FD), Stable*
Long-term Bank 
Facilities
CARE BBB-, Stable**
Long-term/ Short Term 
Bank Facilities
CARE BBB-; Stable / 
CARE A3***
* Revised from CARE BB (FD), Stable
** Revised from CARE BB, Stable
*** Revised from CARE BB, Stable/CARE A4
r.	
Unclaimed Amounts Transferred to Investor 
Education and Protection Fund
	
The Company had transferred an amount of Rs. 
9,85,528/- to Investor Education and Protection Fund 
(IEPF) Authority during Financial Year 2022-23 and 
the details of which is indicated below:
1 Amount of unclaimed 
dividend
Rs. 2,81,159/-
2 Amount of Unclaimed 
matured deposits and 
interest thereon
Rs. 7,04,369/-
Total
Rs. 9,85,528/-
	
The dividends for the under noted years, if remain 
unclaimed for 7 years from being transferred to 
respective unclaimed/unpaid dividend account, 
will be statutorily transferred by the Company to 
Investors Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) 
in accordance with the schedule given below. 
Communication has been sent by the Company 
to the concerned shareholders advising them to 
write to the Company in respect of their unclaimed 
dividend. Attention is drawn that the unclaimed 
dividend for the financial year 2015-2016 is due for 
transfer to IEPF on November 4, 2023. Once the 
unclaimed dividend is transferred to IEPF, no claim 
shall lie against the Company in respect thereof.
F.Y.
Date of 
declaration of 
Dividend
Due date for 
transfer to IEPF
2015-16
29.09.2016
04.11.2023
2016-17
27.09.2017
02.11.2024
2017-18
23.08.2018
28.09.2025
2018-19
26.09.2019
01.11.2026
2019-20
24.12.2020
NA*
2020-21
NA#
NA#
2021-22
NA#
NA#
	
* Entire amount of dividend on preference shares 
was paid to the preference shareholder.
	
# No dividend was declared for the FY 2020-21 and 
2021-22.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 127 
s.	
Unclaimed Shares & IPO Refund
	
In terms of the provisions under Schedule V of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, the details in respect of Unclaimed 
Suspense Account of the Company held in the name and style of “OMAXE LTD UNCLAIMED SHARES DEMAT SUSPENSE 
ACCOUNT” are given below:
Issues
Securities
As on 01.04.2022
Shareholders who ap- proached 
the Registrar/ issuer and shares 
transferred in their favour from 
suspense account during the year
Balance as on 31.03.2023
No. of Share- 
holders
No. of Shares
No. of 
Shareholders
No. of Shares
No. of Share- 
holders
No. of Shares
Fractional 
Bonus Issue
Ordinary Equity 
Shares
195
1251
NIL
NIL
195
1251
	
The Voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on March 31, 2023 shall remain frozen till the 
rightful owners of such shares claim the shares.
t.	
Nomination Facility
	
Members are allowed to nominate any person to whom they desire to have the shares transmitted in the event of 
death. Members desirous of availing this facility may submit the prescribed documents to the Registrar & Share 
Transfer Agent of the Company.
u.	 Shareholding Pattern as on March 31, 2023
Code
Category of Shareholders
Number of
shares
Percentage of
Shares
(A)
Promoter and Promoter Group
A1
Indian
135,606,918
74.14
Sub Total (A)
135,606,918
74.14
(B)
Public
B1
Institutions (Domestic)
NBFC Registered with RBI
1901
0.00
Financial Institutions/ Banks
201,405
0.11
Insurance Companies
4,180,393
2.29
B2
Institutions (Foreign)
Foreign Portfolio Investors
16,463,405
9.00
B3
Central Government(s)/ State Government(s)/ President of 
India
30
0.00
B4
Non-Institutions
Individuals
i.	
Individuals holding share capital upto Rs. 2 Lacs
7,277,544
3.98
ii.	 Individual holding share capital in excess of Rs. 2 Lacs
9,893,203
5.41
iii.	 Non Resident Indians (NRI)
189,417
0.10
	
iv.	 Investor Education & Protection Fund (IEPF)
104,556
0.06
v.	 Others (including Trusts, HUF, NRIs, Bodies Corporates, 
LLPs, Unclaimed Suspense Account & Clearing Members)
8,981,768
4.91
Sub Total (B)
47,293,622
25.86
GRAND TOTAL (A)+(B)
182,900,540
100.00
128 
Omaxe Limited
11.	 SEBI COMPLAINTS REDRESSAL SYSTEM (SCORES)
	
The investor complaints are processed through SEBI 
Complaints Redress System (SCORES), the centralized 
web based complaints redressal system set up by SEBI. 
SCORES facilitates lodging of complaints online with 
SEBI and uploading of Action Taken Reports (ATRs) by 
the concerned companies. Members can access SEBI 
Complaints Redressal System (SCORES) for online 
viewing the status and actions taken by the Company/ 
Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (RTA).
12.	 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
	
Pursuant to the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 and 
Regulation 17 of SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, the 
Board has carried out the annual performance evaluation 
of its own performance, the Directors individually 
as well as the evaluation of the working of its Audit 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Investor 
Grievances cum Stakeholders Relationship Committee. 
A structured questionnaire was prepared after taking 
into consideration inputs received from the Directors, 
covering various aspects of the Board’s functioning such 
as adequacy of the composition of the Board and its 
Committee, Board Culture, execution and performance 
of specific duties, obligations and governance.
	
A separate exercise was carried out to evaluate 
the performance of individual Directors including 
the Chairman of the Board who were evaluated 
on parameters such as level of engagement and 
contribution, independence of judgment, safeguard 
the interest of the Company and minority shareholders 
etc. The performance evaluation of the Chairman and 
the Non Independent Directors was carried out by 
the Independent Directors. Further, the performance 
evaluation of the Independent Directors was carried 
out by the Non Independent Directors. The Directors 
expressed their satisfaction with the evaluation process.
13.	 DETAILS OF REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS
	
The Board has formulated the policy on appointment & 
remuneration of Directors, Key Managerial Personnel 
(KMPs) and Senior Management Personnel (SMPs) in 
terms of the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015. 
The said Policy has been annexed to this Report. The 
details of remuneration/sitting fees/commission paid to 
Directors of the Company, for the financial year 2022-23 
is as follows:
(Amount in Crores)
NAME
SALARY
SITTING FEES
COMMISSION
TOTAL
Mr. Rohtas Goel, Chairman & Whole Time Director*
4.80
-
-
4.80
Mr. Mohit Goel, Managing Director
1.65
-
-
1.65
Mr. Vinit Goyal, Whole Time Director
0.50
-
-
0.50
Mr. Gurnam Singh, Non-Executive & Independent 
Director
-
0.06
-
0.06
Ms. Nishal Jain, Non-Executive & Woman Independent 
Director
-
0.06
-
0.06
Mr. Shridhar Rao, Non-Executive & Independent 
Director
-
0.06
-
0.06
	
Note: In addition to above, royalty aggregating to Rs. 50 
Lakh for usage of brand OMAXE, as approved by Audit 
Committee and Board has separately been paid to Mr. 
Rohtas Goel for FY 2022-23.
	
* The remuneration paid to Mr. Rohtas Goel, in view of 
losses, is subject to confirmation/ ratification by the 
shareholders at 34th Annual General Meeting.
14.	 CEO/CFO CERTIFICATION
 
The Whole Time Director and CFO have submitted a 
certificate to the Board of Directors, pursuant to the 
Regulation 33(2)(a) of SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, certifying 
that the financial statements do not contain any false 
or misleading statement or figures and do not omit any 
material fact which may make the statements or figures 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 129 
contained therein misleading.
 
The Whole Time Director and the CFO have issued 
certificate pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 
17(8) read with Part-B of Schedule-II of the SEBI (LODR) 
Regulations, 2015, certifying that the financial statements 
do not contain any materially untrue statement and 
these statements represent a true and fair view of the 
Company’s affairs.
15.	 PROMOTERS AND CONTROLLING GROUP
	
The promoters/ promoter group(s) of the Company as on 
March 31, 2023 are as follows:
S. 
No.
Name
Category
1
Mr. Rohtas Goel
Promoter
2
Rohtas Goel (HUF)
Promoter Group
3
Mrs. Sushma Goel
Promoter Group
4
Mr. Sunil Goel
Promoter
5
Sunil Goel (HUF)
Promoter Group
6
Mrs. Seema Goel
Promoter Group
7
Mr. Jai Bhagwan Goel
Promoter
8
Mrs. Rekha Goel
Promoter Group
9
Mr. Nakul Goel
Promoter Group
10
Dream Home Developers 
Private Limited
Promoter Group
11
Guild Builders Private 
Limited
Promoter Group
12
NJS Developers Private 
Limited
Promoter Group
13
VSG Builders Private 
Limited
Promoter Group
14
Girvardhari Infra Trade 
Private Limited (Formerly 
known as Ajitesh 
Consultants Private 
Limited)
Promoter Group
	
However, subsequent to FY 2022-23, pursuant to inter-se 
transfer of shares amongst immediate relatives i.e. from 
Mr. Rohtas Goel and Mrs. Sushma Goel, to their sons, Mr. 
Mohit Goel and Mr. Jatin Goel, in terms of the provisions 
SEBI (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeover) 
Regulations, 2011 (Takeover Regulations), Mr. Mohit Goel 
and Mr. Jatin Goel became the part of Promoter Group of 
the Company with effect from June 16, 2023.
16.	 CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
	
The requisite Certificate from the Statutory Auditors of 
the Company, M/s BSD & Co., Chartered Accountants, in 
respect of compliance with the conditions of Corporate 
Governance as stipulated under Regulation 34(3) read 
with Schedule V of the SEBI (LODR) Regulations, 2015, is 
attached and forms part of this Annual Report.
17.	 COMPLIANCE OF CODE OF CONDUCT
	
Your Company has laid down a Code of Conduct 
and Business Ethics (Code) for all the Board 
Members, 
Senior 
Management 
personnel 
and 
designated personnel of the Company. The said 
Code is available on the website of the Company at 
https://www.omaxe.com/investor/code-of-conduct-of-board-directors-
and-senior-managerial-personnel. All Board Members, Senior 
Management personnel and designated personnel have 
affirmed their compliance with the said Code for the FY 
2022-23. The declaration to this effect duly signed by Mr. 
Mohit Goel, Managing Director, is annexed to this report.
	
This Corporate Governance Report of the Company 
for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 is in 
compliance with the requirements of Corporate 
Governance as prescribed under Regulations 17 to 
Regulations 27 and clause (b) to (i) of sub-regulation 
(2) of Regulation 46 of the SEBI (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, to 
the extent applicable to the Company. There is no non-
compliance of any requirement of Corporate Governance 
Report mentioned in the SEBI (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
18.	 SENIOR MANAGEMENT
	
The particulars of Senior Management including the 
changes therein since the close of the previous financial 
year are available at the website of the Company at 
https://www.omaxe.com/investor.
130 
Omaxe Limited
To, 
The Members,
M/s Omaxe Limited 
CIN: L74899HR1989PLC051918
19-B, First Floor, Omaxe Celebration Mall,
Sohna Road, Gurugram- 122001
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, 
returns and disclosures received from the Directors of M/s 
Omaxe Limited (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), 
produced before us by the Company for the purpose for 
issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) 
read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number 
(DIN) status at the portal (www.mca.gov.in) as considered 
necessary and explanations furnished to me / us by the 
Company & its officers, We hereby certify that none of the 
Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for 
the Financial Year ended on 31st March, 2023 have been 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing 
as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such 
other Statutory Authority.
Sl. 
No.
Name of Director
DIN
Date of 
Appointment
1.
Mr. Rohtas Goel
00003735
08.03.1989
2.
Mr. Mohit Goel
02451363
26.09.2019
3.
Ms. Nishal Jain
06934656
04.11.2019
4.
Mr. Gurnam Singh
08357396
12.02.2019
5.
Mr. Shridhar Rao
08600252
04.11.2019
6.
Mr. Vinit Goyal
03575020
12.04.2021
Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment / continuity 
of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the 
management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these based on our verification of annual 
disclosure received by the Company from its Directors and 
verification of the status of DIN data of the Directors available 
on the Ministry of Corporate Affairs Portal.
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future 
viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness 
with which the management has conducted the affairs of the 
Company.
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS 
(Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015)
FOR DMK ASSOCIATES
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Sd/-
(MONIKA KOHLI)
FCS, I. P., LL.B., B. Com (H)
PARTNER 
FCS No. 5480
CP No. 4936
Peer Review No. 779/2020
Date: 10/08/2023
Place: New Delhi
UDIN: F005480E000780034
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 131 
CEO/CFO CERTIFICATE
Date: 26.05.2023
The Board of Directors
Omaxe Limited
19-B, First Floor,
Omaxe Celebration Mall, Sohna Road,
Gurgaon, Haryana -122001
Dear Sir,
We hereby certify the following that:
a) 
We have reviewed financial results for the quarter and year ended March 31, 2023 and that to the best of our knowledge 
and belief: 
	
i.	these results do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might 
be misleading; 
	
ii.	these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing 
accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations and accounting policies and applied them consistently and made 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the 
company. 
b)	 There are, to the best of our knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the quarter and 
year ended March 31, 2023, which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of the Company’s Code of Conduct. 
c)	
That we have taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with 
the provisions of this Act for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other 
irregularities.
d) We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and we have evaluated 
the effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and have disclosed, from time 
to time, to the Auditors and the Audit Committee, operation of such internal controls and that such further improvement 
in design & structure are being made to meet the growing requirements of business.
e) 
We have indicated to the auditors and the Audit committee: 
	
i.	significant changes in internal control including internal Financial controls over financial reporting during the quarter 
and year ended March 31, 2023, if any; 
	
ii.	significant changes in accounting policies during the quarter and year ended March 31, 2023 and that the same have 
been disclosed in the notes to the financial results, if any; and 
	
iii.	instances, if any, of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the 
management or an employee having a significant role in the Company’s internal control system over financial reporting. 
For Omaxe Ltd.	
	
 For Omaxe Ltd. 
Sd/- 	
	
 Sd/-
Vinit Goyal	
	
 Manoj Kumar Dua 
Whole Time Director 	
	
 Chief Financial Officer
132 
Omaxe Limited
Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance
To, 
The Members of Omaxe Limited
We have examined the compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance by Omaxe Limited (the “Company”), for the year 
ended 31st March 2023, as stipulated in Regulation 34 (3) read with Part E of Schedule V of Securities and Exchange Board of 
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’).
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the Management. Our examination was limited 
to procedures and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate 
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, we certify that the Company has 
complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above mentioned Listing Regulations, as applicable.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability to the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
For BSD & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No.: 000312S
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma
Partner
Membership No.: 087919
UDIN: 23087919BGWNKX4477
Place: New Delhi
Date: 26th May 2023
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 133 
DECLARATION UNDER REGULATION 34(3) READ WITH PART D OF 
SCHEDULE V OF SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE 
REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
I, Mohit Goel, Managing Director of the Company confirm the compliance of this Code of Conduct by myself and other members 
of the Board of Directors, Senior Managerial personnel and designated personnel as affirmed by them individually.
For Omaxe Limited
Sd/-
Mohit Goel
Managing Director
DIN: 02451363
Standalone 
Financial 
Statements
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 135 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To The Members of Omaxe Limited 
Report on the Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial 
statements of Omaxe Limited (“the Company”), which 
comprise the Balance Sheet as at 31st March 2023, the 
Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive 
Income), the Statement of changes in Equity and the 
Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and Notes 
to Standalone Financial Statement including a summary of 
the significant accounting policies and other explanatory 
information (hereinafter referred to as “the standalone 
financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended and accounting principles generally 
accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as 
at 31st March 2023, its loss (including other comprehensive 
income/loss), changes in equity and its cash flows for the 
year then ended.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the standalone financial statements 
in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified 
under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under 
those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the 
Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) together 
with the independence requirements that are relevant to 
our audit of the standalone financial statements under the 
provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder, and we 
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance 
with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. We 
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
standalone financial statements.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters (“KAM”) are those matters that, in our 
professional judgement, were of the most significance in our 
audit of the standalone financial statements of the current 
period. These matters were addressed in the context of our 
audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate 
opinion on these matters. In addition to our emphasis of 
matters, we have determined the matters described below 
to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
136 
Omaxe Limited
Description of Key Audit Matters
Sr. No.
Key Audit Matters
How that matter was addressed in our audit report
1
Revenue Recognition
The Company applies Ind AS 115 “Revenue from contracts 
with customers” for recognition of revenue from real 
estate projects, which is being recognised at a point 
in time upon the Company satisfying its performance 
obligations and the customer obtaining control of the 
underlying asset. 
Considering application of Ind AS 115   involves certain 
key judgment’s relating to identification of contracts 
with customer, identification of distinct performance 
obligations, determination of transaction price of the 
identified performance obligations, the appropriateness 
of the basis used to measure revenue recognised over a 
period. 
Additionally, Ind AS 115 contains disclosures which involve 
collation of information in respect of disaggregated 
revenue and periods over which the remaining 
performance obligations will be satisfied subsequent to 
the balance sheet date.
Refer Note 30 to the standalone financial statements.
Our audit procedure on revenue recognition from real 
estate projects included:
Selecting sample to identify contracts with customers, 
identifying separate performance obligation in the 
contracts, determination of transaction price and 
allocating the transaction price to separate performance 
obligation.
On selected samples, we tested that the revenue 
recognition is in accordance with accounting standards 
by
i) 	
Reading, analyzing and identifying the distinct 
performance obligations in real estate projects.
ii)	
Comparing distinct performance obligations with 
those identified and recorded.
iii)	 Reading 
terms 
of 
agreement 
to 
determine 
transaction price including variable consideration to 
verify transaction price used to recognize revenue.
iv)	 Performing 
analytical 
procedures 
to 
verify 
reasonableness of revenue accounted by the 
Company.
2
Pending Income Tax Cases
The Company has various pending income tax cases 
involving tax demands which involve significant judgment 
to determine possible outcome of these cases.
 
Refer Notes 40, 42 and 43 to the standalone financial 
statements
We obtained details of all pending income tax matters 
involving tax demands on the Company and discussed 
with the Company’s in house tax team regarding 
sustainability of Company’s claim before various income 
tax/ appellate authorities on matters under litigation. 
The in-house tax team of the company relied upon past 
legal and other rulings; submissions made by them 
during various hearings held; which were taken into 
consideration by us to evaluate management position on 
these tax demands.
3
Liability 
for 
Non-performance 
of 
real 
estate 
agreements/ civil lawsuits against the Company
The Company may be liable to pay damages/ interest 
for specific non- performance of certain real estate 
agreements, civil cases preferred against the Company 
for specific performance of the land agreement, the 
liability on account of these, if any has been disclosed 
as contingent liability. However, the amount is not 
quantifiable.
Refer Note 40 to the standalone financial statements
We obtained details/ list of pending civil cases and 
reviewed on sample basis real estate agreements, to 
ascertain damages on account of non-performance of 
those agreements and discussed with the legal team of 
the Company to evaluate management position. We have 
been represented that owing to the nature of Contingency, 
the amount is not quantifiable.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 137 
Sr. No.
Key Audit Matters
How that matter was addressed in our audit report
4
Inventories
The company’s inventories comprise mainly of projects 
under construction/development (projects-in-progress) 
completed real estate projects and land.
The inventories are carried at lower of cost and net 
realizable value (NRV). NRV of completed property is 
assessed by reference to market price existing at the 
reporting date and based on comparable transactions 
made by the company and/or identified by the company 
for properties in same geographical area. NRV of 
properties under construction is assessed with reference 
to market value of completed property as at the reporting 
date less estimated cost to complete.
The carrying value of inventories is a significant part of 
the total assets of the company and involves significant 
estimates and judgments in assessment of NRV. 
Accordingly, it has been considered as key audit matter.
Our audit procedures to assess the net realizable value 
(NRV) of the inventories include the following:
We had discussions with Management to understand 
Management’s process and methodology to estimate 
NRV, including key assumptions used and we also 
verified project wise un-sold area and recent sale prices 
and estimated cost of construction to complete projects.
5
Recognition and measurement of Deferred Tax Assets
Under Ind AS, the company is required to reassess 
recognition of deferred tax asset at each reporting 
date. The company has deferred tax assets in respect of 
brought forward losses and other temporary differences, 
as set out in Note 6 and 38 to the standalone financial 
statements.
The company's deferred tax assets in respect of brought 
forward business losses are based on the projected 
profitability. This is determined on the basis of significant 
management judgement and estimation given that is 
based on assumptions such as the likely timing and level 
of future taxable profits which are affected by expected 
future market and economic conditions. 
We have identified recognition of deferred tax assets as 
a key audit matter because of the related complexity and 
subjectivity of the assessment process. 
Our Audit procedures include:
i)    Obtained an understanding of the process and tested 
the control over recording of deferred tax and review 
of deferred tax at each reporting date
ii) Evaluated management assumptions, used to 
determine the probability that deferred tax assets 
recognised in the balance sheet will be recovered 
through taxable income in future years, by handing 
over of major real estate projects.
iii)	 Tested the computations of amount and tax rate 
used for recognition of deferred tax assets.
iv)  We have also focused on the adequacy of the 
company’s disclosure on deferred tax. 
6
Related Party Transactions 
The company has undertaken transactions with its 
related parties in the ordinary course of business at 
arm’s length. These include making new or additional 
investments in its subsidiaries, project management 
services, lending loans or advances to related parties, 
sales or purchases of fixed assets or building material 
to and from related parties etc. as disclosed in note 53 to 
the standalone financial statements. 
We identified the accuracy and completeness of the 
related party transactions and its disclosure as set out 
in respective notes to the financial statements as a key 
audit matter due to the significance of transactions with 
related parties and regulatory compliances thereon 
during the year ended 31st March 2023. 
 
Our procedures included:
i) 	
Obtained and read the Company’s policies and 
procedures in respect of identifying related parties, 
obtaining approval, recording and disclosure of 
related party transactions. 
ii)	
Read minutes of shareholder meetings, board 
meetings and minutes of meetings of those charged 
with governance in connection with Company’s 
assessment of related party transactions being in 
the ordinary course of business at arm’s length. 
iii)	 Tested, related party transactions with the underlying 
contracts, confirmation letters and other supporting 
documents. 
iv) 	 Agreed the related party information disclosed in the 
financial statements with the underlying supporting 
documents, on a sample basis. 
138 
Omaxe Limited
Other Information
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the preparation of the other information. 
The 
other 
information 
comprises 
the 
information 
included in the Management Discussion and Analysis, 
Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, 
Business Responsibility Report, Corporate Governance 
and Shareholder’s Information, but does not include the 
standalone financial statements, the consolidated financial 
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on 
the standalone financial statements does not cover the other 
information and we do not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the standalone financial 
statements, or our knowledge obtained during the course of 
our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report 
in this regard.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Financial 
Results
The Company’s Management and Board of Directors are 
responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act 
with respect to the preparation of these standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view of the financial 
position, 
financial 
performance, 
total 
comprehensive 
income, changes in equity and cash flows of the Company in 
accordance with the Ind AS and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India. This responsibility also includes 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of 
the Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and 
other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that 
are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the standalone financial 
statements that give a true and fair view and are free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In 
preparing 
the 
standalone 
financial 
statements, 
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the 
going concern basis of accounting unless management either 
intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or 
has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are responsible for overseeing the 
Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone 
Financial Results
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the standalone financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone 
financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also:
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the standalone financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control.
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under 
section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for 
expressing our opinion on whether the Company has 
adequate internal financial controls system in place and 
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 139 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management.
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of 
the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the 
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty 
exists related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention 
in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the 
standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures 
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions 
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the 
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue 
as a going concern.
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content 
of the standalone financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the standalone financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
standalone financial statements that, individually or in 
aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions of 
a reasonably knowledgeable user of the standalone financial 
statements may be influenced. We consider quantitative 
materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of 
our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work; and 
(ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in 
the standalone financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance 
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify 
during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the standalone financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 
2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of 
India in terms of section 143 (11) of the Act, as stated in 
the ‘Other Matter’ paragraph we give in the “Annexure 
I” a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 
and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
2.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit, we report that:
a. 
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law have been kept by the Company so far as it 
appears from our examination of those books.
c.	
The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and 
Loss (including other comprehensive income/loss), 
the Statement of Cash Flow and the Statement of 
Changes in Equity dealt with by this report are in 
agreement with the relevant books of account.
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial 
statements comply with the Indian Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act.
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors as on 31st  March 2023 taken 
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the 
directors is disqualified as on 31st March 2023 from 
being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act.
f. 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal 
financial controls over financial reporting of the 
Company and the operating effectiveness of such 
controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure-
II”. Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on 
the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the 
Company’s internal financial controls with reference 
140 
Omaxe Limited
to standalone financial statements. 
g. 
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the 
requirements of section 197(16) of the Act:
	
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
remuneration paid to all the other directors is 
within the limits approved, however remuneration 
paid to the Chairman and Whole Time Director in 
view of losses is to be ratified or approved by the 
shareholders. 
h. 
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, 
as amended, in our opinion and to the best of our 
information and according to the explanations given 
to us:
i.	
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending 
litigations on its financial position in its standalone 
financial statements- Refer note 40 to the standalone 
financial statements.
ii.	
The Company has made provision, as required 
under the applicable law or accounting standards, 
for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term 
contracts including derivative contracts.
iii.	 There are no amounts required to be transferred to 
the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Company.
iv.	 (a)	 The Management has represented that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the note 57(a) to the standalone financial 
statements, no funds have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds 
or share premium or any other sources or kind 
of funds) by the Company to or in any other 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign entities 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, 
whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that 
the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or 
indirectly lend or invest in other persons or 
entities identified in any manner whatsoever 
by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate 
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries;
(b)	 The Management has represented, that, to the 
best of its knowledge and belief, as disclosed 
in the note 57(b) to the standalone financial 
statements no funds have been received by 
the Company from any person(s) or entity(ies), 
including foreign entities (“Funding Parties”), 
with the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, 
whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest 
in other persons or entities identified in any 
manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like on 
behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(c)	 Based on the audit procedures that have been 
considered reasonable and appropriate in the 
circumstances performed by us, nothing has 
come to our notice that has caused us to believe 
that the representations under sub-clause (a) 
and (b) contain any material misstatement.
v.	
The company has not declared or paid any dividend 
including interim dividend during the year. 
vi.	 Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 for maintaining the Books of Accounts 
using accounting software which has feature of 
recording Audit Trail (Edit Log) is applicable to 
the Company with effect from 1st April 2023 and 
accordingly reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies 
(Audit and Auditors) Rule 2014 is not applicable for 
the financial year ended 31st March 2023.
For B S D & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 000312S
 
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma
(Partner)
Membership No: 087919
UDIN: 23087919BGWNKY8236
Place: New Delhi
Date: 26th May 2023 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 141 
I.	
(a)	 (A)	 The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars, including quantitative 
details and situation of Property, Plant and 
Equipment.
 (B)	The Company is maintaining proper records 
showing full particulars of Intangible Assets. 
(b) 	 The Property, Plant and Equipment of the Company 
have been physically verified by the Management 
at reasonable intervals, which in our opinion, is 
considered reasonable having regard to the size of 
the company and the nature of its assets. 
(c)	 In our opinion and according to information and 
explanations given to us and on the basis of our 
examination of the records of the Company, out of 
the total carrying amount of Rs 445.34 crores of 
immovable properties held as Property, Plant and 
Equipment, the title deeds of Rs 393.26 crores are 
not held in the name of the Company (As disclosed 
in note 54.1 to the standalone financial statements).
(d)	 The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant 
and Equipment (including Right of use assets) or 
intangible assets or both during the year. Hence, 
reporting under clause 3(i)(d) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company. 
(e)	 Based on the information and explanations 
furnished to us no proceedings have been initiated 
or are pending against the Company, for holding 
benami property under the Benami Transactions 
(Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and Rules 
made there under (As disclosed in note 54.2 to the 
standalone financial statements).
II.	
(a)	 The inventory includes land, completed real estate 
projects, projects in progress, construction material, 
development and other rights in identified land. 
Physical verification of inventory has been conducted 
at reasonable intervals by the management and 
discrepancies noticed which were not material in 
nature have been properly dealt with in the books of 
accounts.
(b)	 The Company has been sanctioned working capital 
limits from banks or financial institutions on the basis 
of security of current assets and the outstanding 
working capital loans as at Balance Sheet date is Nil 
and the Quarterly returns or statements filed by the 
Company till the date of repayment of such working 
capital loans were in agreement with the books of 
accounts of the Company.
III.	 (a) 	 During the year the Company has made investments 
and provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, 
stood guarantees to companies, limited liability 
partnerships, associates or any other parties as 
follows: 
Annexure I to Independent Auditors’ Report
(Referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading “Report on other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” section of our report 
of even date).
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Investment
made
Guarantees
Loans
Advances in 
the nature of 
loans
Aggregate amount granted/ provided during the year 
Subsidiaries 
Joint ventures 
Associates 
Others 
40.35
-
0.00
-
470.00
-
-
-
34.54
-
-
4.95
1173.91
-
0.03
12.37
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date in respect 
of above cases
Subsidiaries
Joint ventures 
Associates 
Others
324.23
-
0.01
12.12
758.02#
-
-
-
417.35
-
-
-
1,008.64
-
-
113.80 
142 
Omaxe Limited
 	
# Amount outstanding in respect of Bank Guarantees 
and Corporate guarantees given on account of loan 
availed by subsidiary companies. 
(b) 	 During the year the investments made, guarantees 
provided, the terms and conditions of the grant 
of all loans/ advances in the nature of loans and 
guarantees provided to companies, limited liability 
partnerships, associates or any other parties are 
not, prejudicial to Company’s interest.
(c) 	 In respect of the loans/advances in the nature of 
loans, the schedule of repayment of principal has 
not been stipulated as all are repayable on demand 
and has not been demanded. Hence, reporting on 
regular repayment of principal and interest is not 
applicable.
(d)	 In respect of the loans/advances in the nature of 
loans, the schedule of repayment of principal has not 
been stipulated as all are repayable on demand and 
has not been demanded. Hence, reporting of loan 
overdue for more than ninety days is not applicable.
(e) 	 There were no loans/ advances in nature of loans 
which were granted to same parties, and which fell 
due during the year and were renewed /extended. 
Further, no fresh loans were granted to any party to 
settle the overdue loans /advances in nature of loan. 
(f) 	 The Company has granted loans/ advances in 
the nature of loans to companies, limited liability 
partnerships, associates or any other parties. The 
details of aggregate amount of loans/ advances in 
the nature of loans granted to promoters/ related 
parties as defined in clause (76) of section 2 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
All 
Parties 
Promoters 
Related 
Parties
Aggregate amount 
of loans/advances 
in nature of loan 
-	 Repayable on 
demand 
- Without 
specifying terms 
of repayment 
1,539.79
-
-
-
1,426.21
-
Particulars 
All 
Parties 
Promoters 
Related 
Parties
Percentages of 
loans/advances in 
nature of loans to 
the total loans 
-
92.62%
IV.	 In our opinion and according to information and 
explanations given to us, the Company has complied with 
provisions of Section 185 and 186 of the Act in respect of 
loans and investments made, guarantees, and security 
provided by it.
 V.	 During the year, no deposits have been accepted by the 
Company or amounts which are deemed to be deposits, 
hence reporting under Clause 3(v) of the order is not 
applicable, however, in respect of deposits accepted 
by the Company in earlier years after duly complying 
directions issued by Reserve Bank of India and provisions 
of Section 73 to 76 of the Companies Act, 2013, there 
are unpaid matured deposits and interest thereon of Rs 
0.86 crores as disclosed in the note 27 to the standalone 
financial statements. 
 VI. We have broadly reviewed the books of accounts 
maintained by the Company pursuant to the Rules made 
by the Central Government for the maintenance of Cost 
Records under section 148 of the Act, and are of opinion 
that prima facie, the prescribed accounts and records 
have been made and maintained, however, we have not 
made the detailed examination of such cost records.
 VII.	(a)	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and on the basis of our examination of the 
records of the Company, provident fund, employees’ 
state insurance, income tax, duty of customs, goods 
and services tax (GST) and other applicable material 
undisputed statutory dues have generally been 
deposited regularly during the year. There are no 
arrears of outstanding statutory dues as at the last 
day of the financial year concerned, for a period of 
more than six months from the date they became 
payable. 
(b)	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us, there are no dues of income tax, duty of 
customs, value added tax, GST or other applicable 
material statutory dues which have not been 
deposited as on 31st March 2023 on account of any 
dispute except the followings: -
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 143 
VIII.	According to the information and explanations given and 
as disclosed in the note 54.6 to the standalone financial 
statements, and the records of the Company examined 
by us, the Company has not surrendered or disclosed 
any transaction, previously unrecorded in the books of 
account, in the tax assessments under the Income Tax 
Act, 1961, as income during the year. Hence, reporting 
under clause 3(viii) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company. 
IX.	 (a) 	 According to the records of the Company examined 
by us and the information and explanations given to 
us and as disclosed in the note 18.3 to the standalone 
financial statements, the Company has not defaulted 
in repayment of loans or other borrowings or in the 
payment of interest to any lender as at the balance 
sheet date. 
(b)	 According to the information and explanations given 
and as disclosed in the note 18.4 to the standalone 
financial statements, and on the basis of our audit 
procedures, we report that the Company has not 
been declared willful defaulter by any bank or 
financial institution.
(c) 	 In our opinion, and according to the information and 
explanations given and as disclosed in the note 18.5 
to the standalone financial statements, the term 
loans have been applied for the purpose for which 
they were obtained. 
(d) 	 According to the information and explanations 
given to us and as disclosed in the note 18.6 to the 
standalone financial statements, and the procedures 
performed by us and on an overall examination of 
the financial statements of the company, we report 
that no funds raised on short term basis have been 
used for long-term purposes by the company. 
(e) 	 According to the information and explanations given 
and as disclosed in the note 18.7 to the standalone 
financial statements, and on an overall examination 
of the financial statements of the Company, we 
report that the Company has not taken any funds 
from any entity or person on account of or to meet 
the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint 
ventures. 
 (f) 	 According to the information and explanations given 
and as disclosed in the note 18.8 to the standalone 
financial statements, and the procedures performed 
by us, we report that the Company has not raised 
loans during the year on the pledge of securities 
held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associate 
companies. 
 (Rupees in Crore)
Name of Statutes
Nature of 
Dues
Financial Year 
to which the 
matter pertains
Forum where dispute is pending
Amount 
Outstanding
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
2013-14 
Commissioner of Income Tax(A), 
New Delhi
4.53
Income Tax Act, 1961
Income Tax
2016-17
Commissioner of Income Tax(A), 
New Delhi
12.12
Income Tax Act, 1961
TDS
2013-14
Commissioner of Income Tax(A), 
New Delhi
0.73
Income Tax Act, 1961
TDS
2014-15
High Court
0.76
Income Tax Act, 1962
TDS
2015-16
Commissioner of Income Tax(A), 
New Delhi
0.15
Delhi VAT ACT, 2005
VAT
2005-06 & 
2006-07
Joint/ Deputy Commissioner of 
Trade & Taxes, Delhi 
11.14
Haryana VAT 2003
VAT 
2014-15
Chandigarh High Court
21.81
Uttarakhand VAT Act, 2005
VAT
2015-16
Appellate Authority Haldwani, 
Uttarakhand
1.47
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
2010-11 to
2012-13
Commissioner (Appeals)
1.81
Finance Act, 1994
Service Tax
July 2012 to 
March 2016
CESTAT
6.76
144 
Omaxe Limited
X.	
(a) 	 The Company has not raised any money during the 
year by way of an initial public offer or further public 
offer (including debt instruments) during the year, 
hence reporting under clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company. 
(b) 	 The Company has not made any preferential 
allotment or private placement of shares or fully or 
partially or optionally convertible debentures during 
the year, hence reporting under clause 3(x)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company. 
XI.	 (a) 	 During the course of our examination of the 
books and records of the Company, carried out in 
accordance with the generally accepted auditing 
practices in India, and according to the information 
and explanations given to us, we have neither 
came across any instance of material fraud by the 
Company or on the Company, noticed or reported 
during the year, nor we have been informed of any 
such case by the Management. 
(b) 	 During the year, no report under section 143(12) 
of the Companies Act,2013 has been filed by cost 
auditor, secretarial auditor or by us in form ADT-
4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of the Companies 
(Audit and Auditors Rules,2014 with the Central 
Government. 
(c) 	 As represented to us by the Management, there 
are no whistle-blower complaints received by the 
Company during the year.
XII.	 The Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the 
provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, hence reporting 
under clauses 3(xii) (a), (b) and (c) of the Order is not 
applicable to the Company.
XIII.	According to the information and explanations given 
to us, all transactions with the related parties are in 
compliance with Section 177 and 188 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 where applicable and the details have been 
disclosed in the notes to the standalone financial 
statements, as required by the applicable accounting 
standards.
XIV.	(a)	 In our opinion the Company has an internal audit 
system commensurate with the size and nature of 
its business. 
(b)  We have considered the internal audit reports for the 
year under audit, issued to the Company during the 
year and till date, in determining the nature, timing 
and extent of our audit procedures. 
XV.	 According to the information and explanations given 
to us and based on our examination of the records of 
the Company, the Company has not entered non-cash 
transactions with directors or persons connected with 
its directors, hence reporting under clause 3(xv) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
XVI.	(a) 	 The provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) are not applicable to the 
Company, hence reporting under clause 3(xvi)(a) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(b) 	 The Company has not conducted any Non-Banking 
Financial or Housing Finance activities during the 
year, hence reporting under clause 3(xvi)(b) of the 
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(c) 	 The Company is not a Core Investment Company 
(CIC) as defined in the regulations made by the 
Reserve Bank of India, hence reporting under 
clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the 
Company.
(d) 	 The Group do not have more than one Core 
Investment Company as a part of the Group.
XVII. The Company has incurred cash losses of Rs 194.01 
crore in the current financial year and Rs 49.22 crore in 
the immediately preceding financial year. 
XVIII.	There has been no resignation of statutory auditors 
during the year, hence reporting under clause 3(xviii) of 
the Order is not applicable to the Company. 
XIX.	 On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 
54.9 to the standalone financial statements, aging 
and expected dates of realization of financial assets 
and payment of financial liabilities, other information 
accompanying the financial statements, our knowledge 
of the Board of Directors and management plans and 
based on our examination of the evidence supporting 
the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 145 
which causes us to believe that any material uncertainty 
exists as on the date of the audit report that Company 
is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing at the 
date of the balance sheet as and when they fall due 
within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. 
We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to 
the future visibility of the Company. We further state 
that our reporting is based on the facts upto the date 
of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee 
nor any assurance that all liabilities falling due within a 
period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get 
discharged by the company as and when they fall due. 
XX.	 (a) 	 There are no unspent amounts towards Corporate 
Social Responsibility (CSR) on other than ongoing 
projects requiring a transfer to a Fund specified in 
Schedule VII to the Act in compliance with second 
proviso to sub-section (5) of section 135 of the Act, 
hence reporting under clause 3(xx)(a) of the order is 
not applicable to the Company. 
(b)	 There are no ongoing project requiring transfer 
of unspent Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 
amount as at the end of the previous financial year to 
special account, hence reporting under clause 3(xx)
(b) of the order is not applicable to the Company. 
 
For B S D & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 000312S
 
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma
(Partner)
Membership No: 087919
UDIN: 23087919BGWNKY8236
Place: New Delhi
Date:26th May 2023
146 
Omaxe Limited
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) 
of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 
(“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial 
reporting of Omaxe Limited (“the Company”) as at 31st March 
2023 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial 
statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s 
Responsibility 
for 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls
The Board of Directors of the Company is responsible for 
establishing and maintaining internal financial controls 
based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria 
established by the Company considering the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on 
Audit of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting 
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
These responsibilities include the design, implementation 
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls 
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly 
and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence 
to respective company’s policies, the safeguarding of its 
assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the 
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and 
the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as 
required under the Act.
Auditors’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls over financial reporting based on 
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards 
on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to be prescribed 
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to 
an audit of internal financial controls, both applicable to an 
audit of Internal Financial Controls and, both issued by the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards 
and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical 
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain 
reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls over financial reporting was established 
and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in 
all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system over financial reporting and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of 
internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls system 
over financial reporting of the Company.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting
A Company’s internal financial control over financial 
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting 
and the preparation of standalone financial statements for 
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A Company’s internal financial 
control over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that:
(a)	  Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable 
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the Company; 
(b)	 Provide 
reasonable 
assurance 
that 
transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of standalone financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and 
that receipts and expenditures of the Company are 
Annexure II to Independent Auditors’ Report 
(Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even 
date)
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 147 
being made only in accordance with authorizations of 
management and directors of the company; and
(c)	 Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or 
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a 
material effect on the standalone financial statements.
Limitations of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls over financial reporting, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the 
internal financial controls over financial reporting to future 
periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
control over financial reporting may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion          
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according to 
the explanations given to us, the Company has, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls system 
over financial reporting and such internal financial controls 
over financial reporting were operating effectively as at 31st 
March 2023, based on the internal control over financial 
reporting criteria established by the Company considering 
the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting issued by ICAI.
 
For B S D & Co
Chartered Accountants
Firm Registration No: 000312S
 
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma
(Partner)
Membership No: 087919
UDIN: 23087919BGWNKY8236
Place: New Delhi
Date: 26th May 2023
148 
Omaxe Limited
STANDALONE BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
 (Rupees in Crore) 
Particulars
 Note 
No.
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
a)
Property, Plant and Equipment
1
466.63 
473.89 
b)
Rights of use assets 
2
41.67
71.01
c)
Other Intangible Assets
3
 0.20 
 0.11 
d)
Financial Assets
i)
Investments
4
 336.36 
 295.07
ii)
Other Financial Assets
5
 47.88 
 34.63
e)
Deferred Tax Assets (net)
6
 269.72 
 211.75
f)
Non-Current Tax Asset (net)
7
 98.22 
 125.65
g)
Other Non-Current Assets
8
13.73 
14.47
1,274.41 
1,226.58
Current Assets
a)
Inventories
9
 2,315.58 
 2,305.33 
b)
Financial Assets
i)
Trade Receivables
10
 250.60 
 246.38
ii)
Cash and Cash Equivalents
11
 38.51 
 52.39
iii)
Other Bank Balances
12
 159.35 
 159.50
iv)
Loans
13
 417.35 
 719.06
v)
Other Financial Assets
14
 1,139.81 
 936.42
c)
Other Current Assets
15
 213.65 
 202.77
 4,534.85 
 4,621.85
TOTAL ASSETS
 5,809.26
 5,848.43
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
a)
Equity Share Capital
16
 182.90 
 182.90 
b)
Other Equity
 17
 831.50 
 1,025.04 
 1,014.40 
1,207.94
Liabilities
Non-Current Liabilities
a)
Financial Liabilities
i)
Borrowings
18
 196.22 
256.29
ii)
Lease Liabilities
19
15.10
78.54
iii)
Trade Payables
20
 
 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
-
-
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and
Small enterprises
12.79
29.14
iv)
Other Financial Liabilities 
21
 23.01 
 19.21
b)
Other Non-Current Liabilities
22
 3.86 
 3.87
c)
Provisions
23
 8.42 
 7.54
 259.40 
 394.59
Current liabilities
a)
Financial Liabilities
i)
Borrowings
24
 120.29 
239.47
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 149 
Particulars
 Note 
No.
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
ii)
Lease Liabilities
25
63.91
31.60
iii)
Trade Payables
26
 
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
22.49
14.58
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro 
enterprises and
Small enterprises
425.86
379.27
iv)
Other Financial Liabilities
27
 537.88 
 446.38
b)
Other Current Liabilities
28
 3,363.78 
 3,133.16
c)
Provisions
29
 1.25 
 1.44
4,535.46
4,245.90
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
 5,809.26 
 5,848.43
Significant accounting policies	
 A 
Notes on financial statements 	
1-59
The notes referred to above form an integral part of standalone financial statements.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
150 
Omaxe Limited
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Note No.
Year Ended 
31 March 2023
Year Ended 
31 March 2022
Revenue from Operations
30
 459.39 
 411.65 
Other Income
31
 12.18 
 10.53 
TOTAL INCOME
 471.57 
422.18
 EXPENSES 
Cost of Land, Material Consumed, Construction & Other Related 
Project Cost
32
 455.31 
269.96
Changes in Inventories of Finished Stock & Projects in Progress
33
 (8.78) 
 15.20
Employee Benefits Expense
34
 39.94 
 37.59
Finance Costs
35
 104.81 
 103.35
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
36
 55.66 
 38.95
Other Expenses
37
 74.30 
 45.30
TOTAL EXPENSES
721.24 
510.35 
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax
(249.67)
(88.17)
Tax expense
38
Current tax
-
-
Tax adjustments for earlier years
1.34
-
Deferred tax charge / (credit)
(57.82)
(11.88)
 Total Tax Expense 
 (56.48) 
 (11.88)
 Profit/(Loss) For The Year (A)
 (193.19) 
 (76.29)
 Other Comprehensive Income 
 Items that will not be reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss 
Remeasurement of the Net Defined Benefit Plans 
 (1.45) 
 2.32
Tax On Remeasurement of the Net Defined Benefit Plans - 
Actuarial Gain or Loss 
 0.37
 (0.58)
Equity Instruments at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive 
Income 
 0.95 
 0.79 
 Tax on Above Item 
 (0.22) 
 (0.11) 
 Total Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (B)
(0.35)
2.42
Total Comprehensive Income for the year (comprising of profit/
(loss) for the year and other comprehensive income) (A+B)
 (193.54) 
 (73.87)
Earning Per Equity Share (face value of Rs. 10 per share) 
 39
Basic (In Rupees)
 (10.56)
 (4.17)
Diluted (In Rupees) 
 
 (10.56)
 (4.17)
Significant accounting policies	
 A 
Notes on financial statements 	
1-59
The notes referred to above form an integral part of standalone financial statements.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 151 
STANDALONE STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH, 2023
A.	 Equity Share Capital
Particulars
 Number of shares 
 Rupees in Crore 
Balance as at 1 April 2021
 182,900,540 
182.90 
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors
 -
-
Restated balance as at April 1, 2021
 182,900,540 
182.90 
Changes in equity share capital during 2021-22
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2022
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
Balance as at 1 April 2022
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors
 -
-
Restated balance as at April 1, 2022
 182,900,540 
182.90 
Changes in equity share capital during 2022-23
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
B. 	 Other Equity
 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(Rupees in Crore)
Description
 Attributable to owners of Omaxe Limited 
 Equity 
Component 
of Compound 
Financial 
Instruments 
 Reserves and Surplus 
 Other Comprehensive Income 
 Securities 
Premium 
 Retained 
Earnings/ 
(Deficit) 
 General 
Reserve
 Remeasure-
ment of De-
fined Benefit 
Obligation 
 Equity Instru-
ments at Fair 
Value through 
Other Com-
prehensive 
Income 
 Total Other 
Equity 
Balance as at 1 April 2021
225.22
499.61
(9.34)
384.22
(1.76)
0.96
1,098.91
Profit/(Loss) for the year
-
-
(76.29)
-
-
-
(76.29)
Other Comprehensive Income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
1.74
0.68
2.42
Balance as at 31 March 2022
225.22
499.61
(85.63)
384.22
(0.02)
1.64
1,025.04
Balance as at 1 April 2022
225.22
499.61
(85.63)
384.22
(0.02)
1.64
1,025.04
Profit/(Loss) for the year
-
-
(193.19)
-
-
-
(193.19)
Other Comprehensive Income
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(1.08)
0.73
(0.35)
Balance as at 31 March 2023
225.22
499.61
(278.82)
384.22
(1.10)
2.37
831.50
The notes referred to above form an integral part of standalone financial statements.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
152 
Omaxe Limited
Standalone Cash Flow Statement  
for the year ended 31 March, 2023
(Rupees in Crore)
 
 
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
 A. 
 Cash flow from operating activities 
 
 
 
 Profit/(Loss) for the year before tax 
(249.67)
(88.17)
 
 Adjustments for : 
 
 Depreciation and amortization expense 
56.38
39.85
 
 Interest income 
(6.62)
(5.54)
 
 Interest and finance charges 
177.52
139.23
 
 Interest on lease liability 
6.63
6.10
 Bad debts
2.78
0.60
 
 Provision for doubtful trade receivable, deposits and advances 
4.14
4.50
 
 Liabilities no longer required written back 
(2.00)
(1.09)
 
 Loss/(profit) on sale/ discarded of fixed assets 
(0.44)
(2.84)
 Maintenance Income
(0.27)
-
 
 Operating profit/(loss) before working capital changes 
(11.55)
92.64
 
 Adjustments for working capital 
 
 Inventories 
(10.25)
10.89
 
 Trade receivable 
(7.00)
(1.69)
 
 Loans and advances 
(6.90)
9.58
 
 Other financial assets 
(213.27)
(98.29)
 
 Other non-financial assets 
(10.27)
(30.13)
 
 Trade payable, other liabilities and provisions
263.53
175.14
 
 
15.84
65.50
 
 Net cash flow from operating activities 
4.29
158.14
 
 Direct tax paid / (refund) (net)
(26.09)
14.10
 
 Net cash generated from Operating activities (A) 
30.38
144.04
 B 
 Cash flow from investing activities 
 
 Purchase of fixed assets (including Capital work in progress) 
(6.91)
(10.37)
 
 Sale of fixed assets 
7.28
13.88
 
 Purchase of investments 
(40.34)
(0.18)
 
 Movement in other bank balances 
(10.79)
(3.06)
Realisation of receivable against sale of investment
-
0.10
 
 Loan (given to)/repaid by subsidiaries (net) 
295.13
190.50
Loan (given to)/ repaid by others (net)
6.58
(0.24)
 
 Interest received 
17.07
37.41
 
 Net cash generated from /(used in) investing activities (B) 
268.02
228.04
 C 
 Cash flow from financing activities 
 
 Unpaid dividend / deposited 
(0.03)
(0.03)
 Repayment of lease liability including interest
(57.55)
(15.21)
 
 Interest and finance charges paid 
(59.91)
(132.27)
 
 Repayment of borrowings 
(249.40)
(253.95)
 
 Proceeds from borrowings 
54.61
48.76
 
 Net cash (used in)/generated from Financing activities (C ) 
(312.28)
(352.70)
 
 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 
(13.88)
19.38
 
 Opening balance of cash and cash equivalents 
52.39
33.01
 
 Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents 
38.51
52.39
 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 153 
 (Rupees in Crore)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
COMPONENTS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS AT
Cash on hand 
1.94
1.19
Balance with banks
32.76
20.74
Cheques on hand
3.81
30.39
Fixed deposits with banks, having original maturity of three months or less
0.00
0.07
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
38.51
52.39
 
RECONCILIATION STATEMENT OF CASH AND BANK BALANCE
	
	
	
	
	
(Rupees in Crore)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year as per above
38.51
52.39
Add: Balance with bank in dividend / unclaimed dividend accounts / unpaid 
fraction share payable
 0.11
 0.14
Add: Fixed Deposits with banks having remaining maturity for less than twelve 
months
0.50
-
Add: Fixed deposits with banks (lien marked)
155.98
157.83
Add: Fixed deposit against borrowings
2.76
1.53
Cash and bank balance as per balance sheet (refer note 11 & 12)
197.86
211.89
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDAS 7
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(Rupees in Crore)
31 March 2023
Opening Balance
Cash flows
Non Cash 
Changes
Closing Balance
Current secured borrowings
 11.09
(10.86)
0.00
0.23
Non-Current secured borrowings
 319.29 
(142.72)
1.04
177.61
Current unsecured borrowings
 46.41 
(32.53)
(0.00)
13.88
Non-Current unsecured borrowings
 118.97 
(8.68)
14.50
124.79
Total liabilities from financial activities
495.76
(194.79)
15.54
316.51
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
(Rupees in Crore)
31 March 2022
Opening Balance
Cash flows
Non cash changes
Closing balance
Current secured borrowings
 63.56
(52.47)
0.00
11.09
Non-Current secured borrowings
 455.76 
(138.67)
2.20
319.29
Current unsecured borrowings
 36.06 
10.30
0.05
46.41
Non-Current unsecured borrowings
 130.91 
(24.35)
12.41
118.97
Total liabilities from financial activities
686.29
(205.19)
14.66
495.76
Significant accounting policies (refer note A)
The notes referred to above form an integral part of standalone financial statements.
Note: - Depreciation includes amount charged to cost of material consumed, construction & other related project cost..
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
154 
Omaxe Limited
A	
Significant Accounting Policies:
1	
Corporate information
	
Omaxe Limited is mainly into the business of developing 
real estate properties for residential, commercial   and 
retail purposes. The shares of the Company are listed 
on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited and the 
BSE Limited. The registered office of the Company is at 
Shop No. 19-B, First Floor, Omaxe   Celebration Mall, 
Sohna Road, Gurgaon, Haryana-122001 and Corporate 
Office  is situated at 7, LSC,   Kalkaji, New Delhi-110019.
2	
Significant Accounting Policies :
(i)	
Basis of Preparation
	
The standalone financial statements of the 
Company have been prepared in accordance with 
the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules 2015 (‘INDAS’) issued by Ministry of 	
Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’). 
	
The financial statements for the year ended 31 
March 2023 were authorised and approved by 	
the Board of Directors on 26 May, 2023.
 	
The standalone financial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted 
in India. Further, the standalone financial 
statements have been prepared on historical cost 
basis except for certain financial assets,  financial 
liabilities, derivative financial instruments and 
share based payments which are  measured at 
fair values as explained in relevant accounting 
policies. The standalone financial  statements are 
presented in Rupees and all values are rounded 
to the nearest crore, except  when otherwise 
indicated.
(ii)	
Revenue Recognition
	
The Company follows IND AS 115 for revenue 
recognition.
	
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance 
obligation is measured at the amount of 
transaction price (net of variable consideration) 
allocated to that performance obligations. The 	
transaction price of goods sold and services 
rendered is net of variable consideration on 
account  of various discount and scheme as part 
of contract.
	
Point of Time:
(a)	
	 Real estate projects
	
The 
company 
derives 
revenue 
from 
execution of real estate projects. Revenue 
from Real Estate project is recognised 
in accordance with INDAS 115 which 
establishes a comprehensive framework 
in determining whether how much and 
when revenue is to be recognised. Revenue 
from real estate projects are recognised 
upon transfer of control of promised real 
estate property to customer at an amount 
that reflects the consideration which the 
company expects to receive in exchange for 
such booking and is based on following 6 
steps : 
1.	
Identification 
of 
contract 
with 
customers:-
	
The company accounts for contract 
with a customer only when all the 
following criteria are met:
-	
Parties (i.e. the company and the 
customer) to the contract have 
approved the contract (in writing, 
orally or in accordance with business 
practices) and are committed to 
perform their respective obligations.
-	
The company can identify each 
customer’s right regarding the goods 
or services to be transferred.
-	
The company can identify the payment 
terms for the goods or services to be 
transferred.
-	
The 
contract 
has 
commercial 
substance (i.e. risk, timing or amount 
of the company’s future cash flow is 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 155 
expected to change as a result of the 
contract) and
-	
It is probable that the company will 
collect the consideration to which it will 
be entitled in exchange for the goods 
or services that will be transferred to 
the customer. Consideration may not 
be the same due to discount rate etc.
2.	
Identify 
the 
separate 
performance 
obligation in the contract:-
	
Performance obligation is a promise to 
transfer to a customer:
• 
Goods or services or a bundle of 
goods or services i.e. distinct or 
a series of goods or services that 
are substantially the same and are 
transferred in the same way.
• 
If a promise to transfer goods or 
services is not distinct from goods or 
services in a contract, then the goods 
or services are combined in a single 
performance obligation.
• 
The goods or services that is promised 
to a customer is distinct if both the 
following criteria are met:
-	
The customer can benefit from the 
goods or services either on its own 
or 	 together with resources that are 
readily available to the customer (i.e. 
the 	goods 	
or services are capable 
of being distinct) and
-	
The company’s promise to transfer 
the goods or services to the customer 
is separately identifiable from the 
other promises in the contract i.e the 
goods or services are distinct within 
the context of the contract.
 3	
Satisfaction of the performance obligation:-
	
The company recognizes revenue when (or 
as) the company satisfies a performance 	
obligation by transferring a promised goods 
or services to the customer.
	
The real estate properties are transferred 
when (or as) the customer obtains control 
of  the property.
4	
Determination of transaction price:-
	
The transaction price is the amount of 
consideration to which the company expects 
to  be entitled in exchange for transferring 
promised goods or services to customer 
excluding GST. 
	
The consideration promised in a contract 
with a customer may include fixed amount, 
variable amount or both. In determining 
transaction price, the company assumes 
that  goods or services will be transferred 
to the customer as promised  in accordance 
with  the existing contract and the contract 
can’t be cancelled, renewed or modified.
5	
Allocating the transaction price to the 
performance obligation:-
	
The allocation of the total contract price 
to various performance obligation are 
done  based on their standalone selling 
prices, the stand alone selling price is the 
price  at  which  the company would sell 
promised goods or services separately to 
the  customers.
6  	
Recognition of revenue when (or as) 
the company satisfies a performance 
obligation:
 	
Performance obligation is satisfied at a 
point in time if none of the criteria out of the 
below  three not met.
- 	
The customer simultaneously receives 
and consumes a benefit provided by 
the  company’s performance as the 
company performs.
-	
The 
company’s 
performance 
creates or enhances an asset that a 
156 
Omaxe Limited
customer 	
controls as asset is 
created or enhanced or 
-	
The company’s performance doesn’t 
create an asset within an alternative 
use 	to the company and the company 
has an enforceable right to payment 
for 	 performance completed to date. 
	
The company disaggregates revenue 
from real estate projects on the basis 
of 	 nature of revenue.
	
Over a period of time:
	
Performance obligation is satisfied over 
time if one of the criteria out of the following 
three is met:
-	
The customer simultaneously receives 
and consumes a benefit provided by 
the company’s performance as the 
company performs.
-	
The company’s performance creates 
or enhances an asset that a customer 
controls as asset is created or 
enhanced or 
-	
The company’s performance doesn’t 
create an asset within an alternative 
use to the company and the company 
has an enforceable right to payment 
for performance completed to date. 
	
Therefore the revenue recognition for 
a performance obligation is done over 
time if one of the criteria is met out of 
the above three. 
(a)	
Construction Projects	
	
Construction projects where the Company 
is 
acting 
as 
contractor, 
revenue 
is 
recognised in accordance with the terms of 
the construction agreements. Under such 
contracts, assets created does not have an 
alternative use and the Company has an 
enforceable right to payment. The estimated 
project cost includes construction cost, 
development and construction material 
and overheads of such project. The 
Company uses cost based input method 
for measuring progress for performance 
obligation satisfied over time. Under this 
method, the Company recognises revenue 
in proportion to the actual project cost 
incurred as against the total estimated 
project cost. The management reviews 
and revises its measure of progress 
periodically and are considered as change 
in estimates and accordingly, the effect of 
such changes in estimates is recognised 
prospectively in the period in which such 
changes are determined. However, when 
the total project cost is estimated to exceed 
total revenues from the project, the loss is 
recognized immediately. As the outcome of 
the contracts cannot be measured reliably 
during the early stages of the project, 
contract revenue is recognised only to the 
extent of costs incurred in the statement of 
profit and loss.
(b) 	
Lease Rental income 
	
Revenue of Lease Rental is recognised 
over a period of time on an accrual basis in 
accordance with the terms of contract as and 
when the Company satisfies performance 
obligations by delivery services as per 
contractual agreed terms.
(c ) 	 Project Management Fee
	
Project Management fee is accounted as 
revenue upon satisfaction of performance 
obligation as per agreed terms.
(d)	
Interest Income
	
Interest due on delayed payments by 
customers is accounted on accrual basis 
except in cases where ultimate collection is 
considered doubtful.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 157 
(e)	
Income from trading sales
	
Revenue 
from 
trading 
activities 
is 
accounted as revenue upon satisfaction of 
performance obligation.
(f) 	
Dividend income
	
Dividend income is recognized when the 
right to receive the payment is established.
(iii)	
Borrowing Costs
	
Borrowing cost that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or construction of a qualifying  asset 
(including real estate projects) are considered 
as part of the cost of the asset/project.  All other 
borrowing costs are treated as period cost and 
charged to the statement of profit  and loss in the 
year in which incurred.
(iv)	
Property, Plant and Equipment
	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
Properties, plant and equipment are stated at 
their cost of acquisition. The cost comprises 
purchase price, borrowing cost, if capitalization 
criteria are met and directly attributable cost of 
bringing the asset to its working condition for 
the intended use. Any trade discount and rebates 
are deducted in arriving at the purchase price. 
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s 
carrying amount or recognised as a separate 
asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable 
that future economic benefits associated with the 
item will flow to the Company. All other repair and 
maintenance costs are recognised in statement 
of profit or loss as incurred.
	
Subsequent measurement (depreciation and 
useful lives)
	
Property plant and equipment are subsequently 
measured at cost net of accumulated depreciation 
and accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
Depreciation on Property Plant and  Equipment is 
provided on written down value method based on 
useful life of assets as specified  in Schedule II to 
the Companies Act, 2013 as under:
Assets Category	
Estimated 
useful life
(in years)
Estimated 
useful 
life as per 
schedule 
II to 
Companies 
Act, 2013 
(in years)
Office Building
60
60
Plant and Machinery
Cranes
Other items
15
12
15
12
Office Equipment
5
5
Furniture and 
Fixtures
10
10
Vehicles
8-10
8-10
Computers
Server
Others
6
3
6
3
	
The Company based on management estimates 
depreciates certain item i.e. Shuttering Material 	
and scaffolding over estimated useful life of 5 
years considering obsolence as against 12 years 	
specified in Schedule II to Companies Act, 2013. 
The management of the Company believes that 	
the estimated useful life of 5 years is realistic and 
reflects fair approximation of the period over 	
which the assets are likely to be used.
	
De-recognition
	
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognised is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic 
benefits are expected from its use or disposal. 
Any gain or loss arising on de-recognition of the 
asset (calculated as the difference between the 
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount 
of the asset) is included in the income statement 
when the asset is derecognized.
	
Transition to Ind AS
	
On transition to Ind AS, the Company elected 
to fair value land within property, plant and 
equipment and used at value as deemed cost.
158 
Omaxe Limited
(v)	
Intangible Assets
	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
Intangible assets are stated at their cost of 
acquisition. The cost comprises purchase price, 
borrowing cost, if capitalization criteria are met 
and directly attributable cost of bringing the asset 
to its working condition for the intended use. 
Any trade discount and rebates are deducted in 
arriving at the purchase price.
	
Subsequent measurement (amortization and 
useful lives)
	
Intangible assets comprising of ERP & other 
computer software are stated at cost of 
acquisition less accumulated amortization and 
are amortised over a period of four years on 
straight line method.
(vi)	
Impairment of Non-Financial Assets
	
The Company assesses at each balance sheet 
date whether there is any indication that an asset 
may be impaired. If any such indication exists, 
the Company estimates the recoverable amount 
of the asset. If such recoverable amount of the 
asset or the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs is less 
than It’s carrying amount, the carrying amount is 
reduced to its recoverable amount. The reduction 
is treated as an impairment loss and is recognized 
in the statement of profit and loss.
(vii)	 Financial Instruments
(a)	
Financial assets
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial assets are recognised when the 
Company becomes a party to the contractual 
provisions of the financial instrument and are 
measured initially at fair value adjusted for 
transaction costs. However, trade receivables that 
do not contain a significant financing  component 
are measured at transaction price. 
	
Subsequent measurement
(1)	
Financial instruments at amortised cost – the 
financial instrument is measured at the 	
amortised cost if both the following conditions 
are met:
(a)	
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash flows, and
(b)	
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 	
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on 
the principal amount outstanding.
	
After initial measurement, such financial 
assets 
are 
subsequently 
measured 
at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate (EIR) method. All other debt 
instruments are measured at Fair Value 
through other comprehensive income or 
Fair value through profit and loss based on 
Company’s business model.
(2)	
Investment in equity instruments of subsidiaries 
(including partnership firms), joint 	
ventures and associates
	
Investment in equity instruments of subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates are stated  at cost 
as per Ind AS 27 ‘Separate Financial Statements’. 
Where the carrying amount of  an investment is 
greater than its estimated recoverable amount, 
it is assessed for  recoverability and in case of 
permanent diminution, provision for impairment 
is recorded  in statement of Profit and Loss. On 
disposal of investment, the difference between 
the net  disposal proceeds and the carrying 
amount is charged or credited to the Statement 
of  Profit and Loss.
(3) Other Equity investments – All other equity 
investments in scope of INDAS 109 are  measured 
at  fair value. Equity instruments which are held 
for trading are generally  classified as at fair 
value through profit and loss (FVTPL). For all 
other equity instruments,  the Company decides 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 159 
to classify the same either as at fair value 
through other  comprehensive income (FVOCI) 
or fair value through profit and loss (FVTPL). The 
Company makes such election on an instrument 
by instrument basis. The classification  is made 
on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
(4)	
Mutual funds – All mutual funds in scope of Ind-
AS 109 are measured at fair value through 	profit 
and loss (FVTPL).
	
De-recognition of financial assets
	
A financial asset is primarily de-recognised when 
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired or the Company has transferred its 
rights to receive cash flows from the asset.
(b)	
Financial liabilities
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially 
at fair value and transaction cost that are 
attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
liabilities are also adjusted. These liabilities are 
carried at as  amortised  cost.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, these liabilities 
are measured at amortised cost using the 	
effective interest method. These liabilities include 
borrowings and deposits.
	
De-recognition of financial liabilities
	
A financial liability is de-recognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expired. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on  substantially different terms, or on 
the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification is 
treated as the de-recognition of the original 
liability  and the recognition of a new liability. The 
difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
(c ) 	 Compound financial instrument
	
Compound financial instrument are separated 
into liability and equity components based on the 
terms  of the contract. On issuance of the said 
instrument, the liability component is arrived 
by discounting  the gross sum at a market rate 
for an equivalent non-convertible instrument. 
This amount is classified  as a financial liability 
measured at amortised cost until it is extinguished 
on conversion or redemption.  The remainder of 
the proceeds is recognised as equity component of 
compound financial instrument.  This is recognised 
and included in shareholders’ equity, net of Income 
tax effects, and not  subsequently re-measured.
(d) 	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
Financial guarantee contracts are those contracts 
that require a payment to be made to reimburse 
the holder for a loss it incurs because the 
specified party fails to make a payment when due 
in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. 
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised 
initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for 
transaction costs that are directly attributable to 
the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the 
liability is measured at the higher of the amount 
of expected loss allowance determined as per 
impairment requirements of Ind-AS 109 and the 
amount recognised less cumulative amortization.
(e) 	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Company assesses on a forward looking 
basis the expected credit losses associated with 
its assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI 
debt instruments. The impairment methodology 
applied depends on whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk. Note 51 details 
how the Company determines whether there has 
been a significant increase in credit risk.
	
For trade receivables only, the Company applies 
the simplified approach permitted by INDAS 109 
Financial Instruments, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial 
recognition of the receivables.
160 
Omaxe Limited
(f) 	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right 
to offset the recognised amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
(viii)	 Fair value measurement
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to 
sell as asset or paid to transfer a liability in an 
orderly transaction between market participants 
at the measurement date. The fair value 
measurement is based on the presumption that 
the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the 
liability takes place either:
• 
In the principal market for the asset or 
liability, or 	
• 
In the absence of a principal market, in the 
most advantageous market for the asset or 
liability.
	
The fair value of an asset or a liability is 
measured using the assumptions that 
market participants would use when 
pricing the asset or liability, assuming that 
market participants act in their economic 
best interest.
	
A fair value measurement of a non-
financial asset takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic 
benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market 
participant that would use the asset in its 
highest and best use.
	
The company uses valuation techniques 
that are appropriate in the circumstances 
and for which sufficient date are available 
to measure fair value, maximizing the use 
of relevant observable inputs:
• 
Level 1- Quoted (unadjusted) market prices 
in active markets for identical assets or 
liabilities
• 
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which 
the lowest level input that is significant to 
the fair value measurement is directly or 
indirectly observable
• 
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement is unobservable
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in 
the financial statements on a recurring basis, 
the Company determines whether transfer have 
occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-
assessing categorization (based on the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosure, the 
Company has determined classes of assets and 
liabilities on the basis of nature, characteristics 
and risks of the asset or liability and the level of 
the fair value hierarchy as explained above. 
 (ix)	 Inventories and Projects in progress
(a)	
Inventories
(i)	
Building material and consumable stores 
are valued at lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined on the basis of 
the ‘First in First out’ method.
(ii)	
Land is valued at lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost is determined on 
average method. Cost includes cost of 
acquisition and all related costs.
(iii)	
Construction work in progress is valued at 
lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
includes cost of materials, services and 
other related overheads related to project 
under construction.
(iv)	
Completed real estate project for sale is 
valued at lower of cost and net realizable 
value. Cost includes cost of land, materials, 
construction, services and other related 
overheads.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 161 
(v)	
Stock in trade is valued at lower of cost and 
net realisable value.
(b) 	
Projects in progress
	
Projects in progress are valued at lower of 
cost and net realisable value. Cost includes 
cost of   land, development rights, materials, 
construction, services, borrowing costs and other 
overheads   relating to projects. 
(x) 	
Foreign currency translation
(a)	
Functional and presentation currency
	
The financial statements are presented in 
currency INR, which is also the functional 
currency of the Company and presented in Crore.
(b)	
Foreign currency transactions and balances
i.	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded 
at exchange rates prevailing on the date of 
respective transactions.	
ii.	
Financial assets and financial liabilities in 
foreign currencies existing at balance sheet 
date are translated at year-end rates.
iii.	
Foreign currency translation differences 
related to acquisition of imported fixed 
assets are adjusted in the carrying amount 
of the related fixed assets. All other foreign 
currency gain and losses are recognised in 
the statement of profit and loss.
(xi) 	 Retirement benefits
i. 	
Contributions payable by the Company to 
the concerned government authorities in 
respect of  provident fund, family pension 
fund and employee state insurance are 
charged to the statement  of profit and loss.
 ii. 	
The Company is having Group Gratuity 
Scheme with Life Insurance Corporation of 
India.  Provision for gratuity is made based 
on actuarial valuation in accordance with 
INDAS-19.
iii. 	
Provision for leave encashment in respect 
of unavailed leave standing to the credit of 
employees is made on actuarial basis in 
accordance with INDAS-19.
iv.	
Actuarial gains/loss resulting from re-
measurement of the liability/asset are 
included in other comprehensive income.
(xii) Provisions, contingent assets and contingent 
liabilities
	
A provision is recognized when:
• 
the Company has a present obligation as a 
result of a past event;
• 
it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be 
required to settle the obligation; and
• 
a reliable estimate can be made of the 
amount of the obligation.
	
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made 
when there is a possible obligation or a present 
obligation that may, but probably will not, 
require an outflow of resources. Where there is 
a possible obligation or a present obligation that 
the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, 
no provision or disclosure is made.
(xiii)	 Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by 
dividing the net profit for the year attributable to 	
equity shareholders by the weighted average 
number of equity shares outstanding during the 	
year. 
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings 
per share, the net profit for the year 	
attributable to equity shareholders and the 
weighted average number of shares outstanding 	
during the year are adjusted for the effects of all 
dilutive potential equity shares.
162 
Omaxe Limited
(xiv)	 Leases
	
The company follows INDAS 116. In accordance 
with INDAS 116, the company recognises right 
of use assets representing its right to use the 
underlying asset for the lease term at the lease 
commencement date. The cost of right of use 
asset measured at inception shall comprise of 
the amount of the initial measurement of the 
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments 
made at or before commencement date less any 
lease incentive received plus any initial direct cost 
incurred and an estimate of cost to be incurred 
by lessee in dismantling and removing underlying 
asset or restoring the underlying asset or site 
on which it is located. The right of use asset is 
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated 
depreciation, accumulated impairment losses, 
if any, and adjusted for any re-measurement 
of lease liability. The right of use assets is 
depreciated using the Straight Line Method 
from the commencement date over the charter 
of lease term or useful life of right of use asset. 
The estimated useful life of right of use assets 
are determined on the same basis as those of 
Property, Plant and Equipment. Right of use 
asset are tested for impairment whenever there 
is any indication that their carrying amounts may 
not be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is 
recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.
	
The company measures the lease liability at the 
present value of the lease payments that are not 
paid at the commencement date of lease. The 
lease payments are discounted using the interest 
rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be 
readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily 
determined, the company uses incremental 
borrowing rate.
	
The lease liability is subsequently re-measured 
by increasing the carrying amount to reflect 
interest on lease liability, reducing the carrying 
amount to reflect the lease payments made and 
re-measuring the carrying amount to reflect any 
reassessment or lease modification or to reflect 
revised-in-substance fixed lease payments. The 
company recognises amount of re-measurement 
of lease liability due to modification as an 
adjustment to write off use asset and statement 
of profit and loss depending upon the nature 
of modification. Where the carrying amount of 
right of use assets is reduced to zero and there 
is further reduction in measurement of lease 
liability, the company recognises any remaining 
amount of the re-measurement in Statement of 
Profit and Loss.
	
The company has elected not to apply the 
requirements of INDAS 116 to short term leases 
of all assets that have a lease term of 12 months 
or less unless renewable on long term basis and 
leases for which the underlying asset is of low 
value. The lease payments associated with these 
leases are recognised as an expense over lease 
term.
	
 Company as a lessor leases in which the Company 
does not transfer substantially all the risks  and 
rewards of ownership of an asset are classified as 
operating leases. Rental income from  operating 
lease is recognised on a straight-line basis over 
the term of the relevant lease. Initial  direct 
costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an 
operating lease are added to the carrying  amount 
of the leased asset and recognised over the 
lease term on the same basis as rental  income. 
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the 
period in which they are earned. Fit- out rental 
income is recognised in the statement of  profit 
and loss on accrual basis.
 	
Leases are classified as finance leases when 
substantially all of the risks and rewards 
of  ownership transfer from the Company to 
the lessee. Amounts due from lessees under 
finance  leases are recorded as receivables at the 
Company’s net investment in the leases. Finance 
lease  income is allocated to accounting periods 
so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return 
on the  net investment outstanding in respect of 
the lease.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 163 
(xv)	 Income Taxes
i.	
Provision for current tax is made based 
on the tax payable under the Income Tax 
Act, 1961. Current income tax relating to 
items recognised outside profit and loss is 
recognised outside profit and loss (either in 
other comprehensive income or in equity).
ii.	
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts 
of assets and liabilities in the financial 
statements and the corresponding tax 
bases used in the computation of taxable 
profit.
	
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are 
measured at the tax rates that are expected 
to apply in the period in which the liability 
is settled or the asset realised, based on 
tax rates (and tax laws) that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the 
end of the reporting period. The carrying 
amount of deferred tax liabilities and assets 
are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period.
(xvi) 	Cash and Cash Equivalent
	
Cash and Cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprises cash at bank and cash on hand, 
demand deposits and short term deposits which 
are subject to an insignificant change in value. 
The amendment to INDAS-7 requires entities 
to provide disclosure of change in the liabilities 
arising from financing activities, including both 
changes arising from cash flows and non cash 
changes (such as foreign exchange gain or loss). 
The Company has provided information for both 
current and comparative period in cash flow 
statement.
(xvii) Significant management judgement in applying 
accounting policies and estimation of 	
	
uncertainty
(a)	
Significant management judgements
 
When preparing the financial statements, 
management undertakes a number of 
judgements, estimates and assumptions 
about the recognition and measurement of 
assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
(b)	
Recognition of deferred tax assets
	
The extent to which deferred tax assets can 
be recognized is based on an assessment 
of the probability of the Company’s future 
taxable income against which the deferred 
tax assets can be utilized.
(c) 	
Recoverability of advances/receivables
	
At each balance sheet date, based on 
historical default rates observed over 
expected life, the management assesses 
the expected credit loss on outstanding 
receivables and advances.
(d) 	
Defined benefit obligation (DBO)
	
Management’s estimate of the DBO is 
based on a number of critical underlying 
assumptions such as standard rates of 
inflation, medical cost trends, mortality, 
discount rate and anticipation of future 
salary 
increases. 
Variation 
in 
these 
assumptions may 	 significantly impact the 
DBO amount and the annual defined benefit 
expenses.
(e) 	
Provisions
	
At each balance sheet date based on 
management judgment, changes in facts 
and legal aspects, the Company assesses 
the requirement of provisions against the 
outstanding warranties and guarantees. 
However the actual future outcome may be 
different from this judgement.
(f) 	
Inventories
	
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or 
net realisable value (NRV).
	
NRV for completed inventory is assessed 
including but not limited to market 
164 
Omaxe Limited
conditions and prices existing at the 
reporting date and is determined by the 
Company based on net amount that it 
expects to realise from the sale of inventory 
in the ordinary course of business.
 	
NRV in respect of inventories under 
construction is assessed with reference 
to market prices (by referring to expected 
or recent selling price) at the reporting 
date less estimated  costs to complete the 
construction, and estimated cost necessary 
to make the sale. The  costs to complete the 
construction are estimated by management. 
(g)	
Revenue from contracts with customers
	
The Company has applied judgements 
that significantly affect the determination 
of the amount and timing of revenue from 
contracts with customers. 
(h)	
Lease
	
The Company evaluates if an arrangement 
qualifies to be a lease as per the 
requirements of INDAS 116. Identification 
of a lease requires significant judgement. 
The company uses significant judgement 
in assessing the lease term (including 
anticipated renewals) and the applicable 
discount rate.
	
The company determines the lease term 
as the non-cancellable period of lease, 
together with both periods covered by an 
option to extend the lease if the company 
is reasonably certain to exercise that 
option and periods covered by an option 
to terminate the lease if the company is 
reasonably certain not to exercise that 
option. In exercise whether the company is 
reasonably certain to exercise an option to 
extend a lease or to exercise an option to 
terminate the lease, it considers all relevant 
facts and circumstances that create an 
economic incentive for the company to 
exercise the option to extend the lease or to 
exercise the option to terminate the lease. 
The company revises lease term, if there is 
change in non-cancellable period of lease. 
The discount rate used is generally based 
on incremental borrowing rate.
(i) 	
Fair value measurements
	
Management applies valuation techniques 
to determine the fair value of financial 
instruments (where active market quotes 
are not available) and non-financial assets. 
This involves developing estimates and 
assumptions consistent with how market 
participants would price the instrument / 
assets. Management bases its assumptions 
on observable date as far as possible but 
this may not always be available. In that 
case Management uses the best relevant 
information available. Estimated fair values 
may vary from the actual prices that would 
be achieved in an arm’s length transaction 
at the reporting date.
(j) 	
Classification of assets and liabilities into 
current and non-current
	
The Management classifies assets and 
liabilities into current and non-current 
categories based on its operating cycle.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 165 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
Note 1: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Land # 
 Office 
Building 
 Plant and 
Machinery 
$ 
 Office 
Equipment 
 Furniture 
and 
Fixtures 
 Vehicles 
* 
 Computers 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1 April 2021
460.78
4.28
6.10
4.65
6.01
19.72
3.89
505.43
Additions
-
-
0.77
0.35
0.30
7.93
0.95
10.30
Disposals
(9.88)
-
(2.02)
(0.03)
(0.19)
(3.97)
(0.01)
(16.10)
Balance as at 31 March 2022
450.90
4.28
4.85
4.97
6.12
23.68
4.83
499.63
Balance as at 1 April 2022
450.90
4.28
4.85
4.97
6.12
23.68
4.83
499.63
Additions
-
-
1.03
0.57
0.77
3.34
1.04
6.75
Disposals
(5.56)
-
(1.48)
(0.07)
(0.17)
(4.03)
(0.06)
(11.37)
Balance as at 31 March 2023
445.34
4.28
4.40
5.47
6.72
22.99
5.81
495.01
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 April 2021
-
1.39
2.28
3.23
4.55
10.99
2.21
24.65
Depreciation charge during the year
-
0.17
0.90
0.56
0.40
2.98
1.14
6.15
Disposals
-
-
(1.18)
(0.03)
(0.12)
(3.72)
(0.01)
(5.06)
Balance as at 31 March 2022
-
1.56
2.00
3.76
4.83
10.25
3.34
25.74
Balance as at 1 April 2022
-
1.56
2.00
3.76
4.83
10.25
3.34
25.74
Depreciation charge during the year
-
0.16
0.72
0.53
0.39
4.37
1.02
7.19
Disposals
-
-
(0.81)
(0.06)
(0.12)
(3.51)
(0.05)
(4.55)
Balance as at 31 March 2023
-
1.72
1.91
4.23
5.10
11.11
4.31
28.38
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 
2023
445.34
2.56
2.50
1.24
1.62
11.88
1.50
466.63
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 
2022
450.90
2.72
2.85
1.21
1.29
13.43
1.49
473.89
# Land Rs. 9.90 crore (9.90 crore) is mortgaged against borrowing (refer note 18.1)
$ Plant & Machinery are hypothecated against working capital (refer Note 24.1)
* Vehicles are hypothecated against the vehicle loan (refer note: 18.1)
Note 1.1
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Depreciation has been charged to
 - 	 Cost of land, material consumed, construction &  other related project cost 
(refer note 32)
 0.72 
 0.90
 - 	 Statement of profit & loss 
6.47
5.25
Total
7.19
6.15
Note 1.2
The details of title deeds of immovable properties classified as Properties, Plant and Equipment not held in the name of 
Company are given in Note No. 53.1.
166 
Omaxe Limited
Note 2: RIGHT OF USE ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
Right of use as at beginning of year
71.01
109.73
Add: Right of use assets added during the year
21.79 
15.54 
Less: 	 i) 	
Deletion of right of use assets during the year
2.00 
20.61
	
(ii) 	 Depreciation on right of use assets (refer note 36)
49.13 
33.65
Right of use as at end of the year
41.67 
71.01 
Note 3: OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Software 
Gross Carrying Amount
Balance as at 1 April 2021
2.30
Additions
0.07
Disposals
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2022
 2.37 
Gross Carrying Amount
Balance as at 1 April 2022
2.37
Additions
0.15
Disposals
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 2.52 
Accumulated Amortization
Balance as at 1 April 2021
2.21
Charge for the year
0.05
Disposals 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2022
 2.26 
Accumulated Amortization
Balance as at 1 April 2022
2.26
Charge for the year
0.06
Disposals 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 2.32 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2023
0.20
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2022
0.11
Note 3.1
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year ended  
31 March 2023 
 Year ended  
31 March 2022
Amortization has been charged to
- 	
Cost of land, material consumed, construction & other related project Cost
 - 
 - 
- 	
Statement of profit & loss (refer note 36) 
0.06
0.05
Total
0.06 
0.05
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 167 
Note 3.2
The estimated amortization for years subsequent to 31st March, 2023 are as under:
	
(Rupees in Crore)
Year Ending
Amortization Expense
31 March 2024
0.06
31 March 2025
0.06
31 March 2026
0.05
31 March 2027
0.03
Total
0.20
Note 4: NON CURRENT INVESTMENTS
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Unquoted, at cost, fully paid up
 Investments In Equity Instruments of Subsidiaries 
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Entertainment Limited of Rs.10 each 
0.05
0.05
4,629,000 (4,629,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Infrastructure Limited of Rs.10 
each 
1.01
1.01
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of JKB Constructions Private Limited of Rs.10 each 
0.05
0.05
2,262,165 (2,262,165) Equity shares of Omaxe Housing & Developers Limited of 
Rs.10 each 
0.52
0.52
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of JRS Projects Private Limited of Rs.10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Monarch Villas Private Limited of Rs.10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Indore Developers Limited of Rs.10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omtech Infrastructure & Construction Limited 
of Rs.10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Navratan Tech Build Private Limited of Rs.10 
each 
0.05
0.05
1,000,000 (1,000,000) Equity shares of Green Planet Colonisers Private Limited of 
Rs.10 each 
7.75
7.75
24,967,500 (24,967,500) Equity shares of Omaxe Buildhome Limited of Rs. 10 
each 
24.97
24.97
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Primordial Buildcon Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each 
15.04
15.04
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Hamara Ghar Constructions & Developers 
Private Limited of Rs. 10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe New Faridabad Developers Private 
Limited of Rs. 10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Link Infrastructure & Developers Private 
Limited of Rs. 10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Infotech City Developers Limited of Rs. 
10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Zodiac Housing & Infrastructure Private Limited 
of Rs. 10 each 
0.05
0.05
10,50,000 (10,50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Buildwell Limited of Rs. 10 each 
1.05
1.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Rajasthan SEZ Developers Limited of Rs. 
10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Power Private Limited of Rs. 10 each 
0.05
0.05
37,50,000 (37,50,000) Equity shares of Hartal Builders and Developers Private 
Limited of Rs. 10 each
3.94
3.94
50,00,000 (50,00,000) Equity shares of Jagdamba Contractor and Builders 
Limited of Rs. 10 each 
5.00
5.00
168 
Omaxe Limited
Particulars 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Arman Builders Private Limited of Rs. 10 each 
0.05
0.05
37,000 (37,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Heritage Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.04
0.04
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Golden Glades Builders Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each 
0.05
0.05
500 (500) Equity shares of Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited of AED 100 each 
0.06
0.06
Less: Provision for Diminution in Value of Investments
(0.06)
(0.06)
500,00,000 (500,00,000) Equity shares of Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
50.00
50.00
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Ekansh Buildtech Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Kavya Buildtech Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.05
0.05
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Oasis Township Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.01
0.01
25,500 (25,500) Equity shares of Rivaj Infratech Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.03
0.03
25,500 (25,500) Equity shares of Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited of Rs 10 
each 
0.03
0.03
25,500 (25,500) Equity shares of Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited of Rs 
10 each 
0.03
0.03
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Panchi Developers Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Mehboob Builders Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Mehtab Infratech Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Shamba Developers Private Limited of Rs 10 
each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Housing & Infrastructure Limited of Rs 
10 each 
0.05
0.05
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Hitech Infrastructure Company Private 
Limited of Rs 10 each 
0.05
0.05
10,00,000 (10,00,000) Equity shares of Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited of Rs 10 each 
1.00
1.00
2,85,00,000 (2,85,00,000) Equity shares of Omaxe World Street Private Limited of 
Rs 10 each 
28.52
28.52
37,500 (37,500) Equity shares of Sri Balaji Green Heights Private Limited of Rs 10 
each 
0.04
0.04
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Pam Developers (India) Private Limited of Rs 10 
each 
0.98
0.98
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Chapal Buildhome Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each
0.01
0.01
400,000 (400,000) Equity shares of Omaxe International Bazaar Private Limited 
of Rs. 10 each
0.40
0.40
50,000 (50,000) Equity shares of Silver Peak Township Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each
0.05
0.05
10,000 (10,000l) Equity shares of Sarthak Landcon Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Sarva Buildtech Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Aashna Realcon Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Aradhya Real Estate Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Ayush Landcon Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each
0.01
0.01
14,95,000 (14,95,000) Equity shares of Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills Developers 
Limited of Rs. 10 each (refer note 4.2)
2.49
2.49
 6,311 (6,311) Class B Equity Shares of Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills Developers 
Limited of Rs. 1,00,000 each 
81.68
81.68
 189 (189) Class C Equity Shares of Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills Developers 
Limited of Rs. 1,00,000 each 
2.24
2.24
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 169 
Particulars 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
 2,410 (2,410) Class A Equity Shares of Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills Developers 
Limited of Rs. 1,00,000 each 
53.99
53.99
5,00,000 (5,00,000) Superior Equity shares of Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills 
Developers Limited of Rs. 10 each (refer note 4.2)
1.50
1.50
7,500 (7,500) Equity shares of P P Devcon Private Limited of Rs. 10 each 
0.04
0.04
5,000 (5,000) Equity Shares of National Affordable Housing & Infrastructure 
Limited of Rs. 100 each 
0.09
0.09
10,000 (10,000) Equity Shares of Kamini Builders & Promoters Private Limited of 
Rs. 10 each 
0.02
0.02
10,000 (10,000) Equity Shares of Kashish Buildtech Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each 
0.03
0.03
10,000 (10,000) Equity Shares of Shikhar Landcon Private Limited of Rs. 10 each 
0.03
0.03
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of MR Real Estate Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Nexten Infra Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Nexten Real Growth Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each
0.01
0.01
10,000 (10,000) Equity shares of Nexten Super Growth Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each
0.01
0.01
5,000 (5,000) Equity Shares of Giant Dragon Mart Private Limited of Rs. 10 Each 
0.01
0.01
10,000 (Nil) Equity Shares of Colors Real Estate Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
2.51
-
54,00,000 (Nil) Equity Shares of Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private Limited of 
Rs. 10 each
5.40
-
10,000 (Nil) Equity Shares of Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private Limited of 
Rs. 10 each
0.01
-
10,000 (Nil) Equity Shares of World Street Sports Centre Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
-
10,000 (Nil) Equity Shares of Blackbull Retails Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
-
10,000 (Nil) Equity Shares of Omaxe Next Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.01
-
In Limited Liability Partnership
Dreamze New Faridabad Developers LLP [Partnership Interest-99.99% (PY-
74.98%)]
0.01
0.01
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP [Partnership Interest-99.99% (PY-49.99%)] 
0.01
0.00
Other Investments
Investment in Equity Instrument in Associate Companies, fully paid up 
5,000 (5,000) Equity Shares of Parkash Omaxe Amusement Park Private Limited 
of Rs. 10 Each 
0.01
0.01
2,400 (2,400) Equity Shares of Capital Redevelopment Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each
0.00
0.00
2,500 (2,500) Equity Shares of FBD Real Grow Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
0.00
0.00
3,000 (Nil) Equity Shares of Omaxe Be Together Project Developers Private 
Limited
0.00
-
Unquot/ed
Investment in Debentures in Subsidiary Company-unquoted at cost, fully paid 
up
3,24,00,000 (Nil) Unsecured 0% Compulsorily Convertible Debentures Omaxe 
World Street Private Limited of Rs. 10 each
32.40
-
324.24
 283.88 
170 
Omaxe Limited
Others Investment
Investments In Equity Instruments -fully paid up at Fair Market Value through OCI, 
Unquoted
1,496,500 (1,496,500) Equity Shares of Delhi Stock Exchange Limited of Re. 1 
Each
12.12
11.17
Quoted
Investments In Bonds - measured at fair value through Profit & Loss account
Nil (35) Units of Sovereign Gold Bond 2016-17
-
0.02
 Total 
336.36
295.07
Note 4.1:
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
LLP at amortized cost
324.24
283.88
Aggregated book value of quoted investments measured at Fair value through 
profit & loss 
-
0.01
Aggregate fair value of quoted investments measured through profit and loss
-
0.02
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments measured 
at Fair value through OCI 
10.48
10.48
Aggregate fair value of unquoted investments measured 
at Fair value through OCI 
12.12
11.17
Aggregate amount of unrealized gain/ (loss) recognized through OCI
1.64
0.69
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments measured at amortised 
cost
0.06
0.06
Note 4.2:
Investment held by the Company in wholly owned subsidiary Company namely M/s Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills Developers 
Limited at carrying amount of Rs. 3.99 Crore (PY Rs. 3.99 Crore) as at 31st March, 2023 have been pledged as security for 
obtaining loan by Subsidiary Company.
Note 4.3:
The fair value of investments carried at fair value through OCI has been determined by registered valuer as defined in Rule 2 
of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. 
Note 4.4:
During the year, the Company invested 3,24,00,000 Unsecured 0% Compulsorily Convertible Debentures (CCDs) of Rs. 10/- 
each of its subsidiary company i.e. Omaxe World Street Private Limited for Rs. 32.40 crore at following major terms and 
conditions:-
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 171 
Issue Price 	
- 	 At par, i.e. Rs. 10/- each CCD
Upfront amount payable  on or before subscription	
- 	 90% of the subscription amount is to be paid as application money 
and balance 10% on Call, to be made by the issuer company anytime 
within  the tenor of CCDs.	
Interest	
-	
0%	
Tenure	
-	
10 years from the Deemed Date of Allotment of CCDs
Conversion Price	
-	
Conversion price for conversion of CCDs into equity shares of the 
issuer company shall be determined at the time of conversion of the 
CCDs, as per applicable provisions of the Act & Rules
Ranking	
-	
Equity Shares to be allotted upon conversion of CCDs shall rank 
pari-passu with the then fully-paid equity shares of face value Rs. 10 
each of the issuer company, in all respects
Note 5: NON CURRENT OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
(Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
Security Deposits
Considered Good
6.73
3.14
Credit impaired
1.80
1.80
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses 
(1.80)
(1.80)
Bank Deposits with maturity of more than 12 months held as margin money 
33.28
22.34
Interest Accrued On Deposits & Others 
0.30
0.34
Other Advances 
-Subsidiary Companies 
6.49
6.49
-Related Party
-
0.03
-Others 
1.08
2.29
Credit impaired
17.58
16.80
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(17.58)
(16.80)
 Total 
47.88
34.63
Note 5.1: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses in security deposits
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at 31 March 
2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 1.80 
1.80 
Movement in amount of provision (Net) 
- 
- 
Balance at the end of the year 
 1.80 
 1.80
172 
Omaxe Limited
Note - 5.2: Particulars in respect of other advances to subsidiary companies:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Name of Company 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
 Anjaniputra Builders Private Limited 
6.49
6.49
 Total 
6.49
6.49
Note 5.3: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses in other advances
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 16.80 
 15.11 
Movement in amount of provision (Net)
0.78
1.69
Balance at the end of the year 
 17.58 
 16.80 
Note - 6: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS – NET
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
At the beginning of the year
211.75 
200.56
Credit/ (Charge) to statement of profit and loss (refer note no.38)
57.82
11.88
Credit/ (Charge) to other comprehensive income
 0.15
 (0.69)
At the end of the year
 269.72 
 211.75
Components of deferred tax assets/ (liabilities):
	
 	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Deferred Tax Asset 
 Unabsorbed business losses 
327.01 
272.77 
 Difference Between Book and Tax Base of Fixed Assets 
 3.65 
 3.76 
 Provisions 
 13.13 
 10.31 
 Fair valuation of Equity Investments 
 0.10 
 - 
 Others 
 5.53 
 5.15 
 Impact of INDAS116
8.86
9.31
 Deferred Tax Liabilities 
 Fair valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment 
 (88.56) 
 (89.55) 
 Total 
269.72 
211.75 
Note 6.1
The Company has recognized deferred tax assets in respect of losses, as there is reasonable certainty of their recoverability 
in near future.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 173 
Note 7: NON CURRENT TAX ASSETS (NET)
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Direct tax refundable* 
109.40
136.83
Less: Provision against disputed tax demands
11.18
11.18
 Total 
 98.22 
 125.65 
*Includes Rs. 45.03 Crore (Rs. 74.48 Crore previous year) representing amount deposited under protest against demand raised 
and pending for appeal at various levels. 
Note 8: OTHER NON CURRENT ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
 Advance against goods, services and others 
(Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise) 
 -Related Parties 
1.83 
1.83 
 Prepaid Expenses 
 11.90 
 12.64 
 Total 
 13.73
 14.47
Note 9: INVENTORIES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
 Building Material and Consumables 
 17.14 
 9.72 
 Land 
 91.31
 97.26
 Construction Work In Progress 
 12.50 
 11.42 
 Completed Real Estate Projects 
 446.11 
 450.86 
 Project In Progress 
 1,735.69 
 1,723.24 
 Stock in trade
12.83
12.83
 Total 
2,315.58
2,305.33
Note 10: TRADE RECEIVABLES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
(Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
 Considered Good 
250.60 
246.38 
 Credit impaired 
 0.78 
 0.78 
 
 251.38 
 247.16 
 Less: Allowance for expected credit loss
 0.78 
 0.78 
 Total 
 250.60 
 246.38 
174 
Omaxe Limited
Note - 10.1
Due from related parties included in trade receivables are as under:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
 Name of Company 
 Kalp Buildtech Private Limited 
19.01
19.01
 Oasis Township Private Limited 
0.14
0.14
 Total 
19.15
19.15
Note 10.2: Movement in allowances for expected credit loss 
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 0.78 
 0.78
Movement in amount of provision (Net) 
-
 -
Balance at the end of the year 
0.78 
 0.78
Note 10.3: Ageing of Trade Receivables as at 31 March, 2023 is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 6 
months
6 months-1 
year
1-2 Years 2-3 Years
More than 3 
Years
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
considered good
144.47
2.28
0.73
3.70
14.06
65.88
231.12
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed Trade Receivables-
considered good
6.50
0.08
-
0.08
0.06
12.76
19.48
Disputed Trade Receivables-
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed Trade Receivables-
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
0.78
Total
150.97
2.36
0.73
3.78
14.12
79.42
251.38
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
0.78
Total
150.97
2.36
0.73
3.78
14.12
78.64
250.60
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 175 
Note 10.4: Ageing of Trade Receivables as at 31 March, 2022 is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 6 
months
6 months-1 
year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 3 
Years
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
considered good
113.35
31.33
3.65
14.63
7.69
66.38
237.03
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed Trade Receivables-
considered good
0.24
-
0.03
0.01
0.08
8.99
9.35
Disputed Trade Receivables- 
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed Trade Receivables-
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
0.78
Total
113.59
31.33
3.68
14.64
7.77
76.15
247.16
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
0.78
Total
113.59
31.33
3.68
14.64
7.77
75.37
246.38
Note 10.5: Trade Receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms as per contract / agreement. 
Note 11: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Balances With Banks:- 
In Current Accounts 
 32.76 
 20.74 
In Deposit Account With Maturity of Less Than Three Months 
 0.00 
 0.07 
Cheques, Drafts on Hand 
 3.81 
 30.39 
Cash on Hand 
 1.94 
 1.19 
Total 
 38.51 
 52.39 
Note 12: OTHER BANK BALANCES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
In Earmarked Accounts 
In Unpaid Dividend Account 
 0.11 
 0.14 
Deposit with maturity of more than three months but less than twelve 
months
Pledge / Earmarked
 155.98 
 157.83
Fixed Deposits against Borrowings
2.76
1.53
Others
0.50
-
Total 
 159.35 
 159.50 
176 
Omaxe Limited
Note 13: CURRENT LOANS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
 (Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
 Loan to related parties-Subsidiary Companies 
 417.35 
 712.48 
 Loan to Others 
 - 
 6.58 
 Total 
 417.35 
 719.06 
Note 13.1 Particulars in respect of loans to related parties-subsidiary companies:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Name of Company 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited 
50.32
12.50
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited 
27.41
343.65
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited
339.62
356.33
 417.35 
 712.48 
Note 13.2 Particulars of maximum balance during the year in nature of loans given to subsidiary companies:
 (Rupees in Crore)
Name of Company 
 During the year 
ended 
31 March 2023 
 During the year 
ended 
31 March 2022
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
50.32
114.35
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited 
 350.86
405.60
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited 
370.27
383.52
Note 13.3 Loans and advances to specified person
Type of Borrower
As at  31 March 20223
As at  31 March 2022
Amount of loan or 
advance in the nature 
of loan outstanding
(Rupees in Crore)
Percentage to the 
total Loans and 
Advances in the 
nature of loans
Amount of loan or 
advance in the nature 
of loan outstanding
(Rupees in Crore)
Percentage to the total 
Loans and Advances in 
the nature of loans
Related Parties
417.35
100%
712.48
99.08%
Note 13.4: Loan to Subsidiaries and others are interest free. The loans have been granted for the purpose of 	 business and 
for meeting their business requirements.
Note 13.5: Loan granted to others are in the ordinary course of business.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 177 
Note 14: OTHER FINANCIAL ASSET- CURRENT
	
 (Rupees in Crore) 
Particulars 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Security Deposits
Considered Good
21.72
18.41
Interest Accrued On Deposits & Others 
 1.27 
 1.02 
Advances recoverable in Cash
(Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
- From Subsidiary Companies
1,002.15
785.12
- Related Party
0.22
4.41
- From others
112.50
124.34
Credit impaired
 - From others
10.23
8.16
 - Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (10.23)
 (8.16)
Other receivables
 - Receivable against sale of investment
1.95
3.12
Credit impaired
 - Receivable against sale of investment considered Doubtful
5.85
4.68
 - Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(5.85)
(4.68)
 Total 
1,139.81
936.42
Note 14.1  Particulars in respect of advance recoverable in cash from subsidiary companies:
(Rupees in Crore)
Name of Company 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Giant Dragon Mart Private Limited
0.71
0.71
Omaxe Power Private Limited
0.14
0.14
Hamara Ghar Construction Private Limited
0.04
0.04
Zodiac Housing and Infrastructure Private Limited
-
0.05
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills Developers Limited
45.29
13.09
Navratan Techbuild Private Limited
1.34
1.33
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
-
10.69
Arman Builders Private Limited
33.46
32.62
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private Limited
135.80
90.57
Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited
0.01
0.01
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited
416.99
516.83
Ayush Landcon Private Limited
12.55
12.81
Omaxe International Bazaar Private Limited 
2.50
0.59
Landlord Developers Private Limited
6.21
6.20
Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited
7.18
7.18
Nexten Infra Private Limited
7.18
7.18
Chapal Buildhome Private Limited
8.00
0.01
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited
52.86
0.01
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited
3.68
3.68
Sarva Buildtech Private Limited
4.61
0.03
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited
33.45
16.70
Satvik Hitech Builders Private Limited
1.19
1.10
Silver Peak Township Private Limited
6.20
0.06
178 
Omaxe Limited
Name of Company 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Omtech Infrastructure & Construction Limited
65.47
63.49
Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private Limited
64.78
-
MR Real Estate Private Limited
18.49
-
Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private Limited
17.62
-
PP Devcon Private Limited
16.12
-
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
10.71
-
Omaxe Housing and Developers Limited 
7.87
-
Omaxe Indore Developers Limited
7.64
-
World Street Sports Centre Limited
5.73
-
Hartal Builders and Developers Private Limited
4.23
-
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP
2.58
-
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
1.47
-
Reliable Manpower Solution Limited
0.03
-
Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited
0.01
-
Nexten Real Growth Private Limited
0.01
1,002.15 
785.12 
Note 14.2: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
8.16 
6.24 
Movement in amount of provision (Net)
2.07
1.92
Balance at the end of the year 
10.23
8.16
Note 14.3: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses for receivables
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at 31
March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
4.68 
3.51 
Movement in amount of provision (Net)
1.17
1.17
Balance at the end of the year 
5.85
4.68
Note 14.4 Loans and advances to specified person
Type of Party
As at 31 March 2023
As at 31 March 2022
Amount of advance 
in the nature of loan 
outstanding
(Rupees in Crore)
Percentage to the 
total advances in the 
nature of loans
Amount of advance 
in the nature of loan 
outstanding
(Rupees in Crore)
Percentage to the 
total advances in the 
nature of loans
Related Parties
1,002.37
89.91% 
789.53
86.39% 
Note 14.5:  Advance given to subsidiaries and others are interest free and have been given for furtherance of Real Estate 
Business in Subsidiaries.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 179 
Note 15: OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
 (Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
 Advance against goods, services and others 
 - Subsidiary Companies 
 24.82 
 40.79 
 - Related Parties 
 1.40 
 5.89 
 - Others 
 158.46
 140.84
Credit Impaired
-	Others 
6.21
6.08
 - Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(6.21)
(6.08)
 184.68 
 187.52 
 Prepaid Expenses 
 5.49 
 5.06 
 Balance With Government / Statutory Authorities 
 23.48 
 10.19 
 Total 
 213.65 
 202.77 
Note - 15.1 Particulars in respect of advances to subsidiary companies against goods, services and others:
  (Rupees in Crore)
Name of Company 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited 
13.85
13.90
 Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited 
2.54
2.57
 Sri Balaji Green Heights Private Limited 
3.16
3.16
 Kashish Buildtech Private Limited
3.84
4.04
 Shikhar Landcon Private Limited
1.00
1.00
 P P Devcon Private Limited 
-
16.12
 Colors Real Estate Private Limited
0.43
-
 Total 
24.82
40.79
Note 15.2: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses	
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
6.08 
6.36 
Movement in amount of provision (Net)
0.13
(0.28)
Balance at the end of the year 
6.21
6.08
Note 16: EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Authorised
210,000,000 (210,000,000) Equity Shares of Rs.10 Each
 210.00 
 210.00 
350,000,000 (350,000,000) Preference Shares of Rs.10 Each
350.00
350.00
 560.00 
 560.00 
Issued, Subscribed & Paid Up 
182,900,540 (182,900,540) Equity Shares of Rs.10 Each Fully 
Paid Up
 182.90 
 182.90 
 Total 
 182.90 
 182.90 
180 
Omaxe Limited
Note 16.1 Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
 As at  31 March 2023
 As at  31 March 2022 
Numbers
Rupees in Crore
Numbers
Rupees in Core
Equity Shares of Rs. 10 each fully paid
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year 
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
Shares Issued during the year 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Shares bought back during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
Note - 16.2 Terms/rights attached to shares
Equity
The company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of Rs. 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled 
to one vote per share. The company declares and pays dividend in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by board of directors is 
subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of liquidation of the company, 
the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the company, after distribution of all preferential 
amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders. 
Note - 16.3 Shares held by holding company and subsidiary of holding Company in aggregate
Name of Shareholder
 As at  31 March 2023 
 As at  31 March 2022
Number of shares 
held
 Rupees in Crore Number of shares 
held
 Rupees in Crore 
Equity Shares
Guild Builders Private Limited (Holding 
Company)
116,273,971
116.27
116,273,971
116.27
Dream Home Developers Private Limited 
(subsidiary of the holding Company)
 8,925,117 
 8.93 
 8,925,117 
 8.93 
Note - 16.4 Detail of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in capital of the company
Equity Shares
Name of Shareholder
 As at 31 March 2023 
 As at 31 March 2022
Number of 
shares held
 % of Holding 
Number of 
shares held
% of Holding
Guild Builders Private Limited 
 116,273,971
 63.57 
116,273,971
 63.57
Note - 16.5 : The Company has not allotted any other fully paid shares except as above pursuant to contract(s) without payment 
being received in cash and has neither allotted any fully paid up shares by way of bonus shares nor has bought back any class 
of shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the balance sheet date.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 181 
Note - 16.6 Shareholding of promoter
Shares held by promoter as at 31 March, 2023
Promoter Name
Shares held by promoters
% Change 
during the year
As at 31 March 2023
As at  31 March 2022
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
Rohtas Goel
2,747,250
1.50
2,747,250
1.50
-
Rohtas Goel HUF
13,500
0.01
13,500
0.01
-
Sushma Goel
2,377,810
1.30
2,377,810
1.30
-
Sunil Goel
3,336,120
1.82
3,336,120
1.82
-
Seema Goel
21,000
0.01
21,000
0.01
-
Sunil Goel HUF
13,500
0.01
13,500
0.01
-
Jai Bhagwan Goel
998,650
0.55
998,650
0.55
-
Rekha Goel
900,000
0.49
900,000
0.49
-
Guild Builders Private Limited
116,273,971
63.57
116,273,971
63.57
-
Dream Home Developers 
Private Limited
8,925,117
4.88
8,925,117
4.88
-
 
135,606,918
74.14
135,606,918
74.14
 
Shares held by promoter as at 31 March, 2022
Promoter Name
Shares held by promoters
% Change 
during the year
As at  31 March 2022
As at  31 March 2021
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
Rohtas Goel
2,747,250
1.50
2,747,250
1.50
-
Rohtas Goel HUF
13,500
0.01
13,500
0.01
-
Sushma Goel
2,377,810
1.30
2,377,810
1.30
-
Sunil Goel
3,336,120
1.82
3,336,120
1.82
-
Seema Goel
21,000
0.01
21,000
0.01
-
Sunil Goel HUF
13,500
0.01
13,500
0.01
-
Jai Bhagwan Goel
998,650
0.55
998,650
0.55
-
Rekha Goel
900,000
0.49
900,000
0.49
-
Guild Builders Private Limited
116,273,971
63.57
116,273,971
63.57
-
Dream Home Developers 
Private Limited
8,925,117
4.88
8,925,117
4.88
-
 
135,606,918
74.14
135,606,918
74.14
 
Note 17: OTHER EQUITY
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Equity component of compound financial instruments
225.22
225.22
Reserve and Surplus
Securities Premium
499.61
499.61
Retained Earnings/ (Deficit)
(278.82)
(85.63)
General Reserve
384.22
384.22
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation
(1.10)
(0.02)
Equity instrument at fair value through other comprehensive income
2.37
1.64
Total
831.50
1,025.04
182 
Omaxe Limited
Movement of other equity is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year ended
31 March 2023
Year ended
31 March 2022
Equity component of compound financial instruments
225.22
225.22
Securities Premium
499.61
499.61
Retained Earnings/ (Deficit)
Profit/(Loss) as per last balance sheet
(85.63)
(9.34)
Add: Net profit/(loss) for the current year
(193.19)
(76.29)
Profit/(Loss) available for appropriation
(278.82)
(85.63)
General reserve
384.22
384.22
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation
As per last balance sheet
(0.02)
(1.76)
Add: Current year transfer
(1.08)
1.74
Balance at the end of year
(1.10)
(0.02)
Equity instrument at fair value through Other comprehensive income
As per last balance sheet
1.64
0.96
Add: Current year transfer
0.73
0.68
Balance at the end of year
2.37
1.64
Total
831.50
1,025.04
Nature and Purposes of Reserve forming part of Other Equity
a)	 Equity component of compound financial instruments- represents equity component of 0.10% Non-Cumulative, Non-
Convertible, Redeemable Preference Share
b)	 Securities Premium- Security premium includes premium on issue of shares. It will be utilized in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
c)	
Retained Earnings/(Deficit)- This reserve represents accumulated earnings/(Deficit) of the Company as on the balance 
sheet date.
d)	 General Reserve- This reserve is created out of profits earned and is a free reserve.
e)	 Other comprehensive income- The Company has elected to recognize changes in the fair value of investment in equity 
securities and remeasurement of defined benefit obligation in other comprehensive income.
Note 18: BORROWINGS – NON CURRENT
	
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Secured
Term Loans 
Banks
 19.47 
 - 
Non Banking Financial Companies 
 - 
 17.77 
Housing Finance Companies
 68.18 
 137.23 
Vehicle Loans
 2.63 
 3.78 
 Total 
 90.28 
 158.78 
Unsecured Loans
Term Loans from Non Banking Financial Companies
6.19 
12.24 
Preference Capital
250,000,000 (250,000,000) 0.1% Non-Cumulative, Non-Convertible, 
Redeemable Preference Share Capital of Rs. 10 Each
 99.75 
 85.27 
 Total 
 196.22
 256.29
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 183 
Note 18.1 Nature of security of long term borrowings are as under:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
S. No. Particulars
 Amount outstanding as at 
 Current Maturity 
 31 March 2023  31 March 2022
31 March 2023
31 March 2022
Secured
 
 
 
 
1
Term loan from banks are secured by 
equitable mortgage of project properties of 
the company/subsidiaries/ associates/ other 
companies and charge on receivable, material 
at site and work in progress as applicable. 
  
These loans are further secured by pledge 
of shares held by promoter companies and 
personal guarantee of director(s) of the 
Company and secured by corporate guarantee 
of subsidiaries / associates / promoters /other 
companies.
23.19
32.29
3.72
32.29
2
Term 
loan 
from 
Financial 
Institutions 
are secured by equitable mortgage of 
project land of the company / subsidiary 
company/ 
associate/ 
other 
company. 
Term loan from financial institution are 
further secured by personal guarantee of 
director(s) of the Company & pledge of shares 
held by promoter companies. These loans are 
further secured by corporate guarantee of 
subsidiaries / associates / promoters /other 
companies.
-
12.55
-
12.55
3
Term loan from Non Banking Financial 
Companies are secured by equitable mortgage 
of project properties, fixed assets of the 
Company/ subsidiaries/ associate companies 
& charge over cash flow of the project(s), 
and corporate guarantee of such companies. 
These loans are further secured by pledge 
of shares held by promoter companies and 
personal guarantee of director(s) of the 
Company.
0.77
22.24
0.77
4.47
4
Term loan from housing finance companies 
are secured by equitable mortgage of 
project land & hypothecation of receivables 
of 
the 
company/ 
subsidiary/ 
associate 
company and pledge of shares of subsidiary 
company and shares of the company held 
by promoter / promoter companies and 
corporate guarantee of such companies. 
Term loan from housing finance companies 
are further secured by personal guarantee of 
director(s) of the Company.
150.02
246.82
81.84
109.59
5
Vehicle loan are secured by hypothecation of 
the vehicles purchased there against.
3.63
5.39
1.00
1.61
 
Unsecured
 
 
 
 
184 
Omaxe Limited
S. No. Particulars
 Amount outstanding as at 
 Current Maturity 
 31 March 2023  31 March 2022
31 March 2023
31 March 2022
6
Loan from non-banking financial companies 
/ housing finance company are secured by 
pledge of shares of the company held by 
promoter / promoter companies, personal 
guarantee of director(s) of the company and 
corporate guarantee of promoter companies.
25.04
19.91
18.85
7.67
7
Fixed Deposit from Public
-
13.79
-
13.79
8
The Company has one class of non-convertible 
redeemable preference shares and having a 
par value of Rs. 10 per share. The preference 
shares carry a right to preferential dividend of 
0.1 % per annum in relation to capital paid on 
them and are redeemable upon 20 years from 
the date of allotment with call and put option 
for redemption after 10 years from the date 
of allotment. The redemption of preference 
share shall be at a premium of 6% per annum 
from the date of allotment over and above the 
total issue price per preference share and 
premium will be prorate/proportionate to the 
period of holding of these shares.
As the aforesaid preference shares carry 
nominal rate of preference dividend and 
premium 
on 
redemption, 
therefore, 
on 
transition to INDAS, these has been considered 
as compound financial instrument, which 
has been bifurcated into liability and equity 
components. In subsequent years, the liability 
part is increased with the notional interest 
computed using effective interest rate and 
said interest is charged to statement of profit 
and loss.
Further, the premium payable on redemption 
of preference shares shall be provided out of 
the profit of the company or out of securities 
premium before the preference shares are 
redeemed. The company has chosen to pay 
premium on such redemption out of securities 
premium account, therefore, no appropriation 
out of profit have been made. The terms and 
conditions may be modified/ varied/ amended 
with due approval.
99.75
85.27
 - 
 - 
9
Interest accrued & due on borrowings
-
0.00
-
0.00
 
Total
302.40
438.26
106.18
181.97
Less: Current maturities of long term 
borrowing (refer note no. 24)
106.18
181.97
Total
196.22
256.29
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 185 
Note 18.2 The year wise repayment schedule of long term borrowings:
 (Rupees in crore)
Particulars
 Outstanding
as at
31 March 
2023 
Years wise repayment schedule
within 1 
year
1 -2 
year
2-3 year
3-6 year
more than 
6 years
Secured
Term loans
Banks
23.19
3.72
4.40
5.07
10.00
-
Non-banking financial companies
0.77
0.77
-
-
-
-
Housing finance companies
150.02
81.84
55.25
10.18
2.75
-
Vehicle loans
3.63
1.00
0.89
0.90
0.84
-
Unsecured
Term loans
Non-Banking financial companies
25.04
18.85
2.50
2.50
1.19
-
Preference Capital
0.1% Non-Cumulative, Non Convertible, 
Redeemable Preference Share Capital of 
Rs. 10 Each
99.75
-
-
-
-
99.75
Interest accrued & due on borrowings
0.00
0.00
-
-
-
-
Total Long Term Borrowings
302.40
106.18
63.04
18.65
14.78
99.75
Note 18.3  The Company is regular in repayment of principal and interest to Bank, Financial Institution, Non- Banking Financial 
Companies, Housing Finance Companies as per stipulation and there are no defaults in repayment of principal and interest to 
any lender as at the balance sheet date.
Note 18.4:  The Company has not been declared as willful defaulter by any Bank or Financial Institution or any Government 
Authorities.
Note 18.5:  The loans taken by the Company during the year has been utilized for the purpose for which they were obtained.
Note 18.6:  Funds raised by the Company on short term loan have not been used for long term purposes.
Note 18.7:  The Company has not raised any funds from Banks / Financial Institution / Non-Banking Financial Companies / 
Housing Finance Company and from any other entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of Subsidiaries / Joint 
Venture or Associates.
Note 18.8:  No funds were raised during the year on pledge of securities held in its Subsidiaries, Joint Venture or Associates.
Note 18.9:  There are no charges or satisfaction of charges which are yet to be registered or satisfied beyond statutory period.
Note 19: NON CURRENT LEASE LIABILITIES
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Lease Liabilities (refer note no. 44) 
15.10
78.54
 Total 
15.10
78.54
186 
Omaxe Limited
Note 20: NON CURRENT TRADE PAYABLES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
-
-
Total (A)
-
-
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and
Small enterprises
Deferred payment liabilities
-	 In respect of land purchased on deferred credit terms
2.99
-
-	 In respect of development & other charges to be paid on deferred credit 
terms to authorities
9.80
29.14
Total (B)
12.79
29.14
 Total (A+B)
12.79
29.14
Note 20.1  The non-current trade payables are payable after 31st March, 2024, hence not due for payment as at 31st March, 
2023, therefore ageing of non-current trade payables has not been given.
Note 20.2 Deferred Payment Liabilities in respect of development and other charges payable to various authorities are to be 
settled in accordance with terms of payment.
Note 21: NON CURRENT OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Security deposits received
 18.63 
 14.92 
Rebate payable to customers
 4.38 
 4.29 
 Total 
 23.01 
 19.21 
Note 22: OTHER NON CURRENT LIABILITIES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Deferred Income
3.86 
3.87 
 Total 
 3.86 
 3.87 
Note 23: PROVISIONS – NON CURRENT
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Provision for Employee Benefits
Leave Encashment
2.08
1.80
Gratuity
 6.34 
 5.74 
 Total 
 8.42 
 7.54 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 187 
Note 24: BORROWINGS - CURRENT
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Secured
Working Capital Loans From Banks
- 
10.32 
Loan against Fixed Deposits 
0.23
0.77
Total (A)
 0.23 
 11.09 
Unsecured 
Promoter Companies (repayable on demand)
 13.86 
 15.91 
Inter corporate loans from subsidiary
-
27.58
Other loans from directors
0.02 
2.92 
Total (B)
13.88 
46.41 
Total (A+B)
14.11
57.50
Current maturities of long term borrowings (refer note no. 18.1)
106.18
181.97
 Grand Total 
 120.29 
 239.47
Note - 24.1 Nature of security of short term borrowings are as under:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Amount Outstanding 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Secured
Working capital loan from banks are secured by first charge on current assets 
of the company including stock at site, receivables, plant and machinery and 
mortgage of certain land of the Company/ subsidiaries / associates companies.
The working capital loans are further secured by personal guarantee of director(s) 
of the Company / corporate guarantee of promoter companies.
-
10.32
Loan against Fixed Deposits 
 0.23
0.77
Unsecured
Inter corporate loans from promoter companies (repayable on demand)
13.86
15.91
Inter corporate loans from subsidiary companies (repayable on demand)
-
27.58
Loan from directors (repayable on demand)
0.02
2.92
Total
14.11
57.50
Note 24.2 In respect of borrowings from banks on the basis of current assets, the quarterly returns or statement of current 
assets filed by the company are in agreement with books of accounts.
Note 25: CURRENT LEASE LIABILITIES
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Lease Liabilities (refer note no. 44) 
63.91
31.60
 Total 
63.91
31.60
188 
Omaxe Limited
Note 26: CURRENT TRADE PAYABLES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
Other Trade Payables due to micro enterprises and small enterprises
22.49
14.58
Total (A)
22.49
14.58
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and
Small enterprises
Deferred Payment Liabilities
- In respect of land purchased on deferred credit terms from authorities
 95.96 
 76.85 
- In respect of development & other charges to be paid on deferred credit terms 
to authorities
 152.30 
 135.62 
Other Trade Payables
- Subsidiary Companies
6.11 
8.21 
- Others
 171.49 
 158.59 
Total (B)
425.86
379.27
Total (A+B)
448.35
393.85
Note-26.1: The information as required to be disclosed under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 
2006 (“the Act”) has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified by the company, on the basis of information 
and records available.	
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
The principal amount due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end 
of each accounting year
22.49
14.58
The interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each 
accounting year
3.80
2.50
Payment made to suppliers (other than interest) beyond appointed day during 
the year
11.57
9.08
The amount of interest paid by the buyer under MSMED Act, 2006 along with the 
amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed by during 
each accounting year
-
-
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
0.58
0.48
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the accounting 
year
5.73
5.94
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
year, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the 
small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure 
under section 23 of MSMED Act 2006 
(0.20)
1.19
Note-26.2: Ageing of Trade Payables Outstanding as at 31 March, 2023 is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
MSME
1.94
15.36
2.46
1.35
1.38
22.49
Others
76.10
105.96
26.83
16.50
200.47
425.86
Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
78.04
121.32
29.29
17.85
201.85
448.35
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 189 
Note-26.3: Ageing of Trade Payables Outstanding as at 31 March, 2022 is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
MSME
4.70
4.79
1.99
2.46
0.64
14.58
Others
71.34
59.89
19.90
22.37
205.77
379.27
Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
76.04
64.68
21.89
24.83
206.41
393.85
Note 27: CURRENT OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Interest Accrued But Not Due On Borrowings
2.94 
5.64 
Rebate payable
0.34
1.98
Security Deposit Received
 67.20 
 79.57 
Due to Directors
 1.11 
 6.42 
Due to Employees
 4.38 
 6.67 
Interest On Trade Payables
 396.86 
 292.09 
Other Liabilities 
 64.08 
 52.01 
Unpaid Dividend *
0.11 
0.14 
Unpaid Matured Deposits *
 0.86 
 1.86 
Total
537.88
446.38
* There are no amounts required to be transferred to Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
Note 28: OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Statutory Dues Payable
 9.14 
 5.85 
Deferred Income
0.56 
0.59 
Advance from customers and others :
 From Subsidiary Companies
 41.43 
 172.50 
 From Related Parties
 31.67 
 29.85 
 From Others
 3,280.98
 2,924.37
Total
3,363.78
3,133.16
Note 29: PROVISIONS - CURRENT
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Provision for Employees Benefits
Leave Encashment
0.76 
0.78 
Gratuity
 0.49 
 0.66 
 Total 
1.25 
1.44 
190 
Omaxe Limited
Note 30: REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023 
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Income From Real Estate Projects
 429.00 
 307.40 
Income From Trading Goods
 2.72 
 2.48 
Income From Construction Contracts
 0.23 
 2.37 
Other Operating Revenue
 27.44 
 99.40 
 Total 
 459.39 
 411.65 
Note 30.1: Timing of revenue recognition :
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023 
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Revenue recognition at a point of time
408.05
246.38
Revenue recognition over period of time
51.34
165.27
Total revenue from contracts with customers
459.39
411.65
Note 30.2: Disaggregation of revenue is as below : 
(Rupees in Crore)
Nature of Revenue
Year Ended 31 March 2023
Year Ended 31 March 2022
Operating 
Revenue
Other 
Operating 
Revenue
Total
Operating 
Revenue
Other 
Operating 
Revenue
Total
Real Estate Projects
429.00
5.53
434.53
307.40
4.83
312.23
Trading
 2.72
-
2.72
 2.48
-
2.48
Others
0.23
21.91
22.14
2.37
94.57
96.94
Total
431.95
27.44
459.39
312.25
99.40
411.65
Note 30.3: The aggregate value of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is 
Rs. 2,900.05 Crore (Rs. 2,625.31 Crore previous year) which is expected to be recognised as revenue in the subsequent years; 
however revenue to be recognised in next one year is not ascertainable due to nature of industry in which company is operating.
Note 30.4 Advance against unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Advances at beginning of the year
3,126.72
2,925.51
Add: Advances received during the year (net)
686.75
612.86
Less: Revenue recognised during the year
459.39
411.65
Advances at the end of the year
3,354.08
3,126.72
Note 30.5 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Contracted price
478.41
468.47
Reduction towards variable consideration components
19.02
56.82
Revenue recognized
459.39
411.65
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 191 
Note 31: OTHER INCOME	
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023 
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Interest Income 
On Bank Deposits
 3.22 
 3.04 
Others
 3.31 
 1.48 
Liability no longer required written back (net)
2.00
1.09
Profit/(Loss) on sale of Fixed Assets
0.44
2.84
Miscellaneous Income
 2.85 
 1.06 
Interest on financial assets/liabilities carried at amortised cost
 0.36 
 1.02 
 Total 
12.18
10.53
Note 32: COST OF LAND, MATERIAL CONSUMED, CONSTRUCTION & OTHER RELATED PROJECT COST
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Building Materials and Consumables
 9.72 
 14.19 
Land
 97.26 
 88.48 
 106.98 
 102.67 
Add: Incurred During The Year
Land, Development and Other Rights
 65.50 
 41.26 
Building Materials
 94.86 
 52.63 
Construction Cost 
 143.28 
 83.72 
Employee Cost 
 27.77 
 22.85 
Rates and taxes
 17.36 
 11.21 
Administration Cost
 16.93 
 12.75 
Depreciation
 0.72 
 0.90 
Power & Fuel and Other Electrical Cost
 10.96 
 6.94 
Repairs & Maintenance-Plant & Machinery
 0.06 
 0.03 
Finance Cost
 79.34 
 41.98 
456.78
274.27
Less: Inventory at the End of The Year
Building Materials and Consumables
 17.14 
 9.72 
Land
 91.31 
 97.26 
 108.45 
 106.98 
 Total 
 455.31
 269.96
192 
Omaxe Limited
Note 33: CHANGES IN INVENTORIES OF FINISHED STOCK AND PROJECT IN PROGRESS 
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023 
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Inventory at the Beginning of the Year
Completed Real Estate Projects
450.86 
422.29 
Construction Work In Progress
 11.42 
 11.05 
Projects In Progress 
 1,723.24
 1,767.38
Stock in Trade
12.83
12.83
2,198.35
2,213.55
Inventory at the End of the Year
Completed Real Estate Projects
446.11 
450.86 
Construction Work In Progress
 12.50 
 11.42 
Projects In Progress
 1,735.69 
 1,723.24 
Stock in Trade
12.83
12.83
2,207.13
2,198.35
Changes In Inventory
(8.78)
15.20
Note 34: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023 
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Salaries, Wages, Allowances And Bonus 
58.22 
51.81 
Contribution To Provident And Other Funds
 0.91
 0.98
Directors Remuneration
 6.95
 6.72
Staff Welfare Expenses
 1.63 
 0.93 
 67.71 
 60.44 
Less: Allocated to Projects
 27.77 
 22.85 
 Total 
 39.94
 37.59
Note 35: FINANCE COSTS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023 
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Interest On
-Term Loans
45.96
66.42
-Others
113.52
55.93
Interest on Lease Liabilities
6.63
6.10
Other Borrowing Cost
0.27
0.83
Guarantee commission and bank charges
3.06
2.81
Finance Charge on compound financial instrument
14.71
13.24
184.15
145.33
Less: Allocated to Projects
79.34
41.98
 Total 
104.81
103.35
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 193 
Note 36: DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION EXPENSE
	
 	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023 
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment
6.47
5.25
Amortization on intangible assets
0.06
0.05
Depreciation on right of use
49.13
33.65
 Total 
 55.66 
 38.95 
Note 37: OTHER EXPENSES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
 Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Administrative Expenses
Short Term Lease
12.82
2.27
Rates and Taxes
 2.19 
 4.40 
Insurance
 1.90 
 1.39 
Repairs and Maintenance-Building
 0.06 
 0.08 
Repairs and Maintenance-Others
 4.11 
 3.29 
Royalty
 0.50 
 0.05 
Water and Electricity Charges
 1.99 
 2.19 
Vehicle Running and Maintenance
 2.52 
 1.43 
Travelling and Conveyance
 5.75 
 1.71 
Legal and Professional Charges
 22.14 
 18.47 
Printing and Stationery
 1.56 
 1.24 
Postage, Telephone and Courier
 1.28 
 1.30 
Donation
 0.60 
 0.92 
Auditors' Remuneration
 0.40 
 0.36 
Directors Sitting Fees
 0.18 
 0.32 
Bad Debts and Advances Written Off
 2.78 
 0.60 
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses
 - 
 0.41 
Provision For Doubtful Debts, Deposits and Advances (Net)
 4.14 
 4.50 
Miscellaneous Expenses
 6.18 
 1.28 
 71.10 
 46.21 
Less: Allocated to Projects
 16.93 
 12.75 
 54.17 
 33.46 
Selling Expenses
Business Promotion 
 9.37 
 3.16 
Commission
 6.43 
 5.75 
Advertisement and Publicity
 4.33 
 2.93 
 20.13 
 11.84 
 Total 
74.30 
45.30 
Note 38: TAX EXPENSE
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Current income tax 
-
-
Earlier year tax adjustments
1.34
-
Deferred tax
(57.82)
(11.88)
Total
(56.48)
(11.88)
194 
Omaxe Limited
The major components of income tax expense and the reconciliation of expected tax expense based on the domestic effective 
tax rate of the Company at 25.17% and the reported tax expense in statement of profit and loss are as follows:
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Accounting profit/(loss) before tax
(249.67)
(88.17)
Applicable tax rate 
25.17%
25.17%
Computed tax expense
(62.84)
(22.19)
Tax expense comprises of:
Tax Impact of disallowable expenses
4.53
4.97
Tax adjustment on account of adjustment of brought forward losses
58.31
17.22
Current Tax (A)
-
-
Earlier year tax adjustments (B)
1.34
-
Deferred Tax Provisions
Decrease in deferred tax liability on account of Property, Plant and Equipment 
(0.99)
(1.98)
Decrease in deferred tax assets on account of provisions, fair valuation of 
development income and others
(56.83)
(9.90)
Total Deferred Tax Provisions (C)
(57.82)
(11.88)
Tax expenses recognised in Statement of Profit & Loss (A+B+C)
(56.48)
(11.88)
Effective tax rate
-
-
Note 39: EARNINGS PER SHARE
Particulars
 
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Profit/(Loss) attributable to equity shareholders (Rupees in Crore)
(193.19)
(76.29)
Weighted average number of equity shares
 182,900,540 
 182,900,540
Nominal value per share
 10.00 
 10.00
Earnings per equity share
Basic
(10.56)
(4.17)
Diluted
 (10.56) 
 (4.17)
Note 40: CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
 Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
I
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts (to the extent 
quantifiable)
43.35
27.27
II
Bank guarantees
 
 
 
In respect of the Company
80.29
74.63
 
In respect of subsidiaries 
 50.43 
 50.51 
 
In respect of erstwhile subsidiary company 
 - 
 3.52 
III
Bank guarantee issued by Subsidiary Company
 6.14 
 6.14 
IV
Corporate guarantees
 Amount outstanding in respect of corporate guarantee given on
 account of loan availed by subsidiary companies 
707.59
493.96
V
Disputed tax amounts
 
 
Sales tax
34.42
33.00
 
Service tax
8.91
8.91
 
Income tax (Net of Provision) 
213.20
208.03
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 195 
 Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
VI
Writ Petition filed by Income tax department against order of Settlement 
Commission before Delhi High Court
Amount 
unascertainable
Amount 
unascertainable
VII
The Company may be contingently liable to pay damages / interest in 
the process of execution of real estate and construction projects and for 
specific non-performance of certain agreements, the amount of which 
cannot presently be ascertained
Amount 
unascertainable
Amount 
unascertainable
VIII
Certain civil cases preferred against the Company in respect of labour 
laws, specific performance of certain land agreements, etc. and disputed 
by the Company
Not Quantifiable
Not Quantifiable
Note 41: Some of the balances of trade receivable, trade payable, loan/ advances given and other financial and non-financial 
assets and liabilities are subject to reconciliation and confirmation from respective parties. The balance of said trade 
receivable, trade payable, loan/ advances given and other financial and non-financial assets and liabilities are taken as shown 
by the books of accounts. The ultimate outcome of such reconciliation and confirmation cannot presently be determined, 
therefore, no provision for any liability that may result out of such reconciliation and confirmation has been made in the 
financial statement, the financial impact of which is unascertainable due to the reasons as above stated above.
Note 42: The Income Tax Department has filed writ petition before Hon’ble Supreme Court against the order of Income tax 
settlement commission in earlier years for assessment year 2000-01 to 2006-07, which is pending for hearing. Pending final 
outcome of such petition filed, no provision of any potential liability has been made in the books of accounts, the amount of 
which cannot presently be ascertained. 
A demand of Rs. 23.82 Crores has been raised against the company for A.Y. 2007-08 and 2015-16 on various accounts and the 
company has filed petitions before the Hon’ble High Court against these demand. An amount of Rs. 23.06 Crores has been 
deposited by the company against this demand under dispute. Further the Income Tax Department has also filed necessary 
appeals/writ petitions/ SLP with appropriate authority against the relief given by various appellate authorities of Rs. 141.84 
crores to the Company. A further demand of Rs. 39.47 Crores has been raised against the company for A.Y.s 2012-13 to 2017-18 
on various accounts and the company has filed appeals before the CIT(A) against these demands and an amount of Rs. 21.97 
Crores has been deposited by the company against these demands under dispute.
Based on the decision of various appellate authorities and the interpretations of relevant provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961, 
the Company has been advised by the experts that the demand so raised is likely to be deleted.
Note 43: During the previous year ended 31 March, 2022, the Company was subjected to search under section 132 of  the 
Income Tax Act, 1961. Subsequent proceedings before appropriate authority are underway. Tax liability, if any arising out of 
such proceedings shall be accounted for in the financial year in which such demand is crystalized.
196 
Omaxe Limited
Note 44: LEASES 
(a)	 Company as a leasee
	
Lease Contracts entered by the company majorly pertains to building taken on lease to conduct the business activities in 
ordinary course.
	
The details of right of use asset held by the company is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
Additions for the year 
ended
31 March 2023 
(Net of deletion)
Net Carrying amount 
as at 
31 March 2023
Addition for the year 
ended 
31 March 2022  
(Net of deletion)
Net Carrying amount 
as at 
31 March 2022
Building 
19.79
41.67
(5.07)
71.01
The following are the amounts recognized in statement of profit and loss:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at 
31 March 2023
As at 
31 March 2022
Depreciation on right of use asset
49.13
33.65
Interest on lease liability
6.63
6.10
Total
55.76
39.75
The following is breakup of Current and Non-Current Lease Liability as at 31 March, 2023
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Current lease liability
 63.91
 31.60
Non-Current lease liability
15.10
78.54
Total
 79.01
 110.14
The following is movement in Lease Liability during the year ended 31 March, 2023
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
110.14
124.32
Addition during the year
21.78
15.54
Finance cost accrued during the year 
6.63
6.10
Deletion 
(2.00)
(20.61)
Payment of lease liability
(57.54)
(15.21)
Balance at the end of the year
79.01
110.14
The table below provides details regarding the Contractual Maturities of Lease Liability as at 31st March, 2023 on an 
undiscounted basis:
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Less than one year
71.75
77.62
One to five year
18.01
43.52
More than five year
0.63
1.05
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 197 
(b)	 Company as a lessor
	
Lease arrangements where the Company is lessor, lease rentals are recognized on straight line basis over the non-
cancellable period.
Note 45: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
The details of expenditure incurred on CSR are as under
 	
 (Rupees in Crore)
S. No.
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
a.
The Gross amount required to be spent by the Company during the 
year as per Section 135 of Companies Act 2013 read with Schedule VIII
-
-
b.
Amount spent during the year on:
i Construction / acquisition of any assets
-
-
ii On purposes other than (i) above 
0.00
0.41
c.
Shortfall at the end of the year
-
-
d.
Total of previous years shortfall
-
-
e.
Reason for shortfall
NA
NA
f.
The breakup of expenses included in amount spent are as under 
Particulars
Covid-19 Relief related activities
0.00
0.41
Vanvasi Raksha Pariwar Foundation
0.00
0.00
Total
0.00
0.41
Note 45.1: There are no unspent amounts requiring transfer to a fund specified in Schedule VII of Companies Act, 2013 within 
a period of six months of expiry of financial year in compliance with second proviso to Section 135 (5) of Companies Act, 2013. 
Note 45.2: In accordance with Circular No. 14/2021 date 25th August, 2021 in respect of Section 135 of Companies Act, the 
excess amount of CSR expenditure incurred by the Company during the Financial year are to be set off against the required 2% 
CSR expenditure up to immediately succeeding three financial years subject to compliance of conditions as stipulated under 
rule 7(3) of Companies (CSR Policy) Rule, 2014.
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act
(Rupees in Crore)
Balance excess 
spent as at 1 April 
2022
Amount required to 
be spent during the 
year
Amount spent 
during the year
Balance as at 
31 March 2023
Available for set off 
till Financial Year 
2024-25
Available for set 
off till Financial 
Year 2025-26
0.41
-
0.00
0.41
0.41
0.00
(Rupees in Crore)
Balance excess 
spent as at 1 April 
2021
Amount required to 
be spent during the 
year
Amount spent 
during the year
Balance as at 31 
March 2022
Available for set off till Financial 
Year 2024-25
-
-
0.41
0.41
0.41
Note 46: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
1)	 Post-Employment Obligations – Gratuity
The Company provides gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/termination 
is the employees’ last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied by the number of 
198 
Omaxe Limited
years of service. For the funded plan the Company makes contributions to recognised funds in India. The Company does not 
fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period of time based on estimations of 
expected gratuity payments.
The amounts recognised in the Financial Statement and the movements in the net defined benefit  obligation over the year 
are as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
a.
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation and the fair 
value of plan assets
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Present value of obligation as at the end of the year
6.96
6.56
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
0.13
0.16
Net liability (asset) recognized in balance sheet
6.83
6.40
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
b.
Bifurcation of PBO at the end of year in current and non-current
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Current liability
0.49
0.66
Non-current liability
6.34
5.74
Total
6.83
6.40
(Rupees in Crore)
c.
Expected contribution for the next annual reporting period
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Service Cost
1.12
0.97
Net Interest Cost
0.50
0.46
Total
1.62
1.43
 (Rupees in Crore)
d.
Changes in defined benefit obligation
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Present value obligation as at the beginning of the year
6.56
10.22
Interest cost
 0.47 
0.72 
Service cost
 0.89
0.79
Benefits paid
 (2.84)
 (2.88)
Actuarial loss/(gain) on obligations
 1.88
 (2.29)
Present value obligation as at the end of the year
6.96
6.56
 	
 (Rupees in Crore)
e.
Change in fair value of plan assets
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Fair value of plan assets as at the beginning of the year
0.16
0.10
Actual Return on plan assets
 0.02 
 0.03 
Employer Contribution
2.81
2.93
FMC
(0.02)
(0.02)
Benefits paid
 (2.84)
 (2.88)
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
0.13
0.16
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 199 
 (Rupees in Crore)
f.
Actuarial Gain/(Loss) on Plan Assets
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Expected Interest income
 (0.01)
(0.01)
Actuarial Income on Plan Asset
0.02
0.03
Actuarial gain /(loss) for the year on Asset
0.01
0.02
(Rupees in Crore)
g.
Amount recognized in the statement of profit and loss 
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Current service cost
 0.89 
 0.79
Net Interest cost
 0.46 
 0.72
Amount recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
1.35
1.51
 (Rupees in Crore)
h.
 Other Comprehensive Income
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Net cumulative unrecognized actuarial gain/(loss) opening
 (0.51) 
 (2.83) 
Actuarial gain/(loss) for the year on PBO
(1.88)
2.29
Actuarial gain/(loss) for the year on Asset
0.01
0.03
Unrecognised actuarial gain/(loss) at the end of the year
 (2.38)
 (0.51) 
i.
Economic assumptions 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Discount rate
7.36%
7.18%
Future salary increase
6.00%
6.00%
j.
Demographic Assumption
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Retirement Age (Years)
58
58
Mortality rates inclusive of provision for disability
 IALM (2012-14) 
 IALM (2012-14) 
Ages
Withdrawal Rate (%) Withdrawal Rate (%)
 Up to 30 Years
3.00
3.00
 From 31 to 44 Years
2.00
2.00
 Above 44 Years
1.00
1.00
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
k.
Sensitivity analysis for gratuity liability
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Impact of the change in discount rate
 
 
Present value of obligation at the end of the year
 6.96 
 6.56 
a) Impact due to increase of 0.50 %
(0.36)
(0.33)
b) Impact due to decrease of 0.50 %
0.39
0.36
 (Rupees in Crore)
l.
Impact of the change in salary increase
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Present value of obligation at the end of the year
6.96
6.57
 a) Impact due to increase of 0.50%
0.30
0.29
 b) Impact due to decrease of 0.50 %
(0.29)
(0.27)
 (Rupees in Crore)
200 
Omaxe Limited
m.
Maturity Profile of Defined Benefit Obligation
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Year
 
 
0 to 1 year
0.62
0.82
1 to 2 year
 0.22 
 0.17 
2 to 3 year
 0.29
 0.23
3 to 4 year
 0.41 
 0.30 
4 to 5 year
0.16
0.36
5 to 6 year
 0.23
 0.12
6 Year onward
 5.03 
 4.56 
n.
The major categories of plan assets are as follows: (As Percentage of 
total Plan Assets)
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Funds Managed by Insurer
100%
100%
o. 	 Description of Risk Exposures:
	
Valuations are based on certain assumptions, which are dynamic in nature and vary over time. As such company is exposed 
to various risks as follow-
A.	 Salary Increases- Actual salary increases will increase the Plan’s liability. Increase in salary increase rate assumption in 
future valuations will also increase the liability.
B.	 Investment Risk – If Plan is funded then assets liabilities mismatch & actual investment return on assets lower than the 
discount rate assumed at the last valuation date can impact the liability.
C.	 Discount Rate: Reduction in discount rate in subsequent valuations can increase the plan’s liability.
D.	  Mortality & disability – Actual deaths & disability cases proving lower or higher than assumed in the valuation can impact 
the liabilities.
E.  Withdrawals – Actual withdrawals proving higher or lower than assumed withdrawals and change of withdrawal rates at 
subsequent valuations can impact Plan’s liability.
2)	 Leave Encashment
	
Provision for leave encashment in respect of un-availed leaves standing to the credit of employees is made on actuarial 
basis. The Company does not maintain any fund to pay for leave encashment	
3)	 Defined Contribution Plans
	
The Company also has defined contribution plan i.e. contributions to provident fund in India for employees. The Company 
makes contribution to statutory fund in accordance with Employees Provident Fund and Misc. Provision Act, 1952. This 
is post-employment benefit and is in the nature of defined contribution plan. The contributions are made to registered 
provident fund administered by the government. The provident fund contribution charged to statement of profit & loss for 
the year ended 31 March, 2023 amount to Rs. 0.88 Crore (PY Rs. 0.92 Crore). 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 201 
Note 47: AUDITOR’S REMUNERATION
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended 
31 March 2023
Year Ended 
31 March 2022
As Auditor
Audit fees
0.20
0.16
Limited review fees
 0.12
 0.12
In other capacity
Tax audit fees
 0.05
 0.05
Certification charges
 0.01
 0.01
Out of pocket expenses
 0.02
 0.02
Total
 0.40
 0.36
Note 48: SEGMENT INFORMATION
The Company’s business activities which are primarily real estate development and related activities falls within a single 
reportable segment as the management of the Company views the entire business activities as real estate development. 
Accordingly, there are no additional disclosure to be furnished in accordance with the requirement of Ind AS 108 – Operating 
Segments with respect to single reportable segment. Further, the operations of the Company is domiciled in India and therefore 
there are no reportable geographical segment. 
Information about geographical segment:
(Rupees in Crore)
Revenue from operations
Year Ended 
31 March 2023
Year Ended 
31 March 2022
Within India
459.39
411.65
Outside India
-
-
Total
459.39
411.65
None of the non- current assets are held outside India.
No single customer represents 10% or more of Company’s total revenue for the year ended 31st March, 2023 (31st March, 2022).
Note 49: During the financial year ended 31 March 2023, Promoter/members of promoter group of the Company ie Mr. Rohtas 
Goel, Promoter & Chairman of the Company, and his brother Mr. Sunil Goel, M/s Sunil Goel HUF & Mrs. Seema Goel (SG 
Group) have entered into an understanding, subject to execution of relevant agreements etc, as may be required from time to 
time, for one-time full and final resolution of all/any disputes and differences among them (including but not limited to the 
disputes and differences related to shareholding, directorship, control, management, affairs and any other matters of like 
nature of Omaxe Group Companies and family matters); withdrawal/ quashing, as the case may be, and close all litigations 
filed against each-other and pending before any courts/ tribunals/ judicial & quasi-judicial authorities/ statutory authorities/ 
regulatory authorities/ financial institutions/ private institutions/ police and any other authority or body of a like nature; 
transfer of shareholding of SG Group in Omaxe Group Companies; and re-classification of SG Group from promoter and/or 
promoter group category of Omaxe Limited, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set out in Regulation 31A of SEBI LODR 
Regulations and other applicable laws and necessary approval(s).
This has no impact on the financial statements of the Company other than inter-se change in promoter holding upon effecting 
transfer of shares within promoter group pursuant to aforesaid settlement.
202 
Omaxe Limited
Note 50: FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
(i)	 Financial Assets/Liabilities by category
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Note
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Financial Assets
 
 
 
Non-Current
 
 
 
At FVTPL
 
 
 
Investments in Bonds
4
- 
0.02 
At FVTOCI
 
 
 
Investments in equity share instrument
4
12.12
11.17
At Amortised Cost
 
 
 
Other Financial Assets
5
47.88
34.63
Current 
 
 
 
Trade Receivables
10
250.60 
246.38 
Cash & Cash Equivalents
11
38.51 
52.39 
Other bank balance
12
159.35 
159.50 
Loans
13
417.35 
719.06 
Other Financial Assets
14
1,139.81 
936.42 
Total Financial Assets
 
2,065.62 
2,159.57 
 
 
 
 
Financial Liabilities
 
 
 
At Amortised Cost
 
 
 
Non-current liabilities
 
 
 
Borrowings
18
196.22 
256.29 
Lease liabilities
19
15.10
78.54
Trade Payable
20
12.79 
29.14 
Other Financial Liabilities
21
23.01
19.21
Current Liabilities
 
 
Borrowings
24
120.29 
239.47 
Lease liabilities
25
63.91
31.60
Trade Payables
26
448.35 
393.85 
Other Financial Liabilities
27
537.88
446.38
Total Financial Liabilities
 
 1,417.55
 1,494.48
	
Investment in subsidiaries and associates are measured at cost as per INDAS 27, ‘Separate financial statements’.
(ii)	 Fair Value Hierarchy
	
This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that 
are recognised and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining 
fair value, the group has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the Indian Accounting 
Standard. An explanation of each level follows underneath the table. 
(Rupees in Crore)
As at 31 March 2023
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
Investment in Bonds
-
-
-
-
Investment in Equity Shares
 -
12.12
-
12.12
 (Rupees in Crore)
As at 31 March 2022
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
Investment in Bonds
0.02
-
-
0.02
Investment in Equity Shares
-
11.17
-
11.17
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 203 
(iii)	 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at 31 March 2023
As at 31 March 2022
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
Non Current
 
 
 
 
Other Financial Assets
47.88
47.88
34.63
34.63
Current 
 
 
 
 
Trade Receivables
250.60
250.60
246.38
246.38
Cash & Cash Equivalents
38.51
38.51
52.39
52.39
Other bank balances
159.35
159.35
159.50
159.50
Loans
417.35
417.35
719.06
719.06
Other Financial Assets
1,139.81
1,139.81
936.42
936.42
Total Financial Assets
2,053.50
2,053.50
2,148.38
2,148.38
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Non-current liabilities
 
 
 
 
Borrowings
196.22
196.22
256.29
256.29
Lease liabilities
15.10
15.10
78.54
78.54
Trade Payable
12.79
12.79
29.14
29.14
Other Financial Liabilities
23.01
23.01
19.21
19.21
Current Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Borrowings
120.29
120.29
239.47
239.47
Lease liabilities
63.91
63.91
31.60
31.60
Trade Payables
448.35
448.35
393.85
393.85
Other Financial Liabilities
537.88
537.88
446.38
446.38
Total Financial Liabilities
1,417.55
1,417.55
1,494.48
1,494.48
	
For short term financial assets and liabilities carried at amortized cost, the carrying value is reasonable approximation of 
fair value.
Note 51: RISK MANAGEMENT
‘The Company’s activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The management has the overall responsibility 
for the establishment and oversight of the Company’s risk management framework. This note explains the sources of risk 
which the entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the related impact in the financial statements.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that counterparty fails to discharge its obligation to the Company. The Company’s exposure to credit 
risk is influenced mainly by cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and financial assets measured at amortised cost. 
The Company continuously monitors defaults of customers and other counterparties and incorporates this information into 
its credit risk controls.
Credit risk management
Credit risk rating
The Company assesses and manages credit risk of financial assets based on following categories arrived on the basis of 
assumptions, inputs and factors specific to the class of financial assets.
204 
Omaxe Limited
A: Low credit risk on financial reporting date
B: Moderate credit risk
C: High credit risk
The Company provides for expected credit loss based on the following:
Credit risk
Basis of categorization
Provision for expected credit loss
Low credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, other bank 
balances and investment
12 month expected credit loss
Moderate credit risk
Trade receivables and other financial 
assets
Life time expected credit loss or 12 month 
expected credit loss
Based on business environment in which the Company operates, a default on a financial asset is considered when the counter 
party fails to make payments within the agreed time period as per contract. Loss rates reflecting defaults are based on actual 
credit loss experience and considering differences between current and historical economic conditions.
Assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, such as a debtor declaring bankruptcy or a litigation 
decided against the Company. The Company continues to engage with parties whose balances are written off and attempts to 
enforce repayment. Recoveries made are recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
(Rupees in Crore)
Credit rating
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
A: Low credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, other bank 
balances and investment
534.22
506.96
B: Moderate credit risk
Trade receivables and other financial assets
1,855.64
1,936.49
Concentration of trade receivables
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across various states in India with no significant concentration 
of credit risk. 
Credit risk exposure
Provision for expected credit losses
The Company provides for 12 month expected credit losses for following financial assets –
As at 31 March 2023
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Gross 
carrying amount 
Expected credit 
losses
Carrying amount net 
of expected credit 
losses
Trade Receivables
251.38
0.78
250.60
Security deposits
30.25
1.80
28.45
Loans and Advances
1,602.45
27.81
1,574.64
Other Receivables
7.80
5.85
1.95
Total
1,891.88
36.24
1,855.64
As at 31 March 2022
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Gross 
carrying amount 
Expected credit 
losses
Carrying amount net 
of expected credit 
losses
Trade Receivables
247.16
0.78
246.38
Security deposits
23.35
1.80
21.55
Loans and Advances
1,690.40
24.96
1,665.44
Other Receivables
7.80
4.68
3.12
Total
1,968.71
32.22
1,936.49
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 205 
The Company considers provision for lifetime expected credit loss for trade receivables, loans and advances given. Given the 
nature of business operations, the Company’s receivables from real estate business has little history of losses as transfer 
of legal title of properties sold is generally passed on to the customer, once the Company receives the entire consideration. 
Advances are given for purchase of land and for other goods and services. Therefore trade receivables and advances given 
have been considered as moderate credit risk financial assets.
Reconciliation of loss provision – lifetime expected credit losses
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Trade 
Receivables
Security 
deposits
Loans and 
Advances
Other 
Receivable
Loss allowance as on 1 April 2021
0.78
1.80
21.35
3.51
Impairment loss recognised/(reversed) during the year
-
-
3.61
1.17
Loss allowance as on 31 March 2022
0.78
1.80
24.96
4.68
Impairment loss recognised/(reversed) during the year
-
-
2.85
1.17
Loss allowance as on 31 March 2023
0.78
1.80
27.81
5.85
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial 
liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity is to 
ensure as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the liquidity position and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash 
flows. The Company takes into account the liquidity of the market in which the entity operates.
Maturities of financial liabilities
The tables below analyses the financial liabilities into relevant maturity pattern based on their contractual maturities.
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Less 
than 1 
year
1 - 2 
years
2 - 3 
years
3 - 6 years
More than 6 
years
Total
Carrying 
Amount
As at 31 March 2023
Non-Current borrowings
106.41
64.25
18.67
13.75
550.00
753.08
302.40
Current borrowings
14.11
-
-
-
-
14.11
14.11
Trade Payables
448.35
8.09
4.70
-
-
461.14
461.14
Other Financial Liabilities
577.01
37.00
14.01
10.33
16.50
654.85
639.90
Total
1,145.88
109.34
37.38
24.08
566.50
1,883.18
1,417.55
As at 31 March 2022
Non-Current borrowings
183.31
95.07
58.82
17.27
550.00
904.47
438.26
Current borrowings
57.50
-
-
-
-
57.50
57.50
Trade Payables
393.85
18.48
5.27
5.39
-
422.99
422.99
Other Financial Liabilities
523.99
37.21
6.98
7.74
15.25
591.17
575.73
Total
1,158.65
150.76
71.07
30.40
565.25
1,976.13
1,494.48
Market risk
Interest Rate risk
The Company’s policy is to minimise interest rate cash flow risk exposures on long-term financing. As At 31st March the 
Company is exposed to changes in market interest rates through bank borrowings at variable interest rates. Other borrowings 
206 
Omaxe Limited
are at fixed interest rates.
Company’s exposure to interest rate risk on borrowings is as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Variable rate
 180.87
 335.59
Fixed rate
36.31
76.39
Total 
 217.18 
 411.98
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of profit and equity to a possible change in interest rates of +/- 1% (31 March 
2023: +/- 1%; 31 March 2022: +/- 1%). These changes are considered to be reasonably possible based on observation of 
current market conditions. The calculations are based on a change in the average market interest rate for each period, and 
the financial instruments held at each reporting date that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. All other variables are 
held constant.
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Profit for the year 
+1%
Profit for the year 
-1%
31 March 2023
2.62
(2.62)
31 March 2022
3.19
(3.19)
Note 52: CAPITAL MANAGEMENT POLICIES
(a)	 Capital Management
	
The Company’s capital management objectives are to ensure the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern as well 
as to provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk.
	
The Company monitors capital on the basis of the carrying amount of equity plus its subordinated loan, less cash and 
cash equivalents as presented on the face of the statement of financial position and cash flow hedges recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
	
The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions 
and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may 
adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The amounts 
managed as capital by the Company are summarised as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Long term borrowings 
302.40
438.26
Short term borrowings 
14.11
57.50
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
(38.51)
(52.39)
Net debt 
278.00
443.37
Total equity 
1,014.40
1,207.94
Net debt to equity ratio 
0.27
0.37
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 207 
(b)	 Dividends
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
For the year ended 
31 March 2022
(i) Equity and Preference shares 
 
 
Final dividend on equity shares paid during the year
-
-
Final dividend on preference shares paid during the year
-
-
	
The Board of Directors of the Company in the meeting held on 26th May, 2023 have recommended the payment of dividend 
for the financial year ended 31 March, 2023 on 0.1% Non-Cumulative, Non-Convertible, Redeemable Preference Shares. 
This proposed dividend is subject to the approval of shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting.
Note 53: Related parties disclosure
A. 	 Related parties are classified as: 
S. No.
Name of Company
I Holding Company
1
Guild Builders Private Limited
II Fellow Subsidiary companies
1
Dream Home Developers Private Limited
2
Hansa Properties Private Limited
III Wholly owned Subsidiary companies
1
Aashna Realcon Private Limited
2
Anjaniputra Builders Private Limited
3
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited
4
Arman Builders Private Limited
5
Atulah Contractors and Constructions Private Limited
6
Ayush Landcon Private Limited
7
Blackbull Retails Private Limited (w.e.f. 16.06.2022)
8
Chapal Buildhome Private Limited
9
Colors Real Estate Private Limited (w.e.f. 05.08.2022)
10
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited
11
Ekansh Buildtech Private Limited
12
Golden Glades Builders Private Limited
13
Green Planet Colonisers Private Limited
14
Hamara Ghar Constructions and Developers Private Limited
15
Jagdamba Contractors and Builders Limited
16
JKB Constructions Private Limited
17
JRS Projects Private Limited
18
Kamini Builders And Promoters Private Limited
19
Kashish Buildtech Private Limited
20
Kavya Buildtech Private Limited
21
Landlord Developers Private Limited
22
Link Infrastructure and Developers Private Limited
23
Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.08.2022)
24
Mehboob Builders Private Limited
25
Mehtab Infratech Private Limited
26
Monarch Villas Private Limited
27
MR Real Estate Private Limited
208 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Name of Company
28
National Affordable Housing Limited (Formerly known as National Affordable Housing and Infrastructure 
Limited)
29
Navratan Techbuild Private Limited
30
Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited
31
Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited
32
Nexten Infra Private Limited
33
Nexten Real Growth Private Limited
34
Nexten Super Growth Private Limited
35
Oasis Township Private Limited
36
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
37
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
38
Omaxe Entertainment Limited
39
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills Developers Limited
40
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
41
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
42
Omaxe Hitech Infrastructure Company Private Limited
43
Omaxe Housing and Developers Limited
44
Omaxe Housing And Infrastructure Limited
45
Omaxe Indore Developers Limited
46
Omaxe Infotech City Developers Limited
47
Omaxe Infrastructure Limited
48
Omaxe International Bazaar Private Limited
49
Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private Limited (w.e.f. 22.07.2022)
50
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited
51
Omaxe New Faridabad Developers Private Limited
52
Omaxe Next Private Limited (w.e.f. 21.06.2022)
53
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited
54
Omaxe Power Private Limited
55
Omaxe Rajasthan SEZ Developers Limited
56
Omtech Infrastructure and Construction Limited
57
Pam Developers (India) Private Limited
58
Panchi Developers Private Limited
59
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
60
Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited
61
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited
62
Sarva Buildtech Private Limited
63
Shamba Developers Private Limited
64
Shikhar Landcon Private Limited
65
Silver Peak Township Private Limited
66
Worldstreet Sports Center Limited (w.e.f. 02.06.2022)
67
Zodiac Housing and Infrastructure Private Limited
IV Other Subsidiary Companies
1
Dreamze New Faridabad Developers LLP
2
Giant Dragon Mart Private Limited
3
Hartal Builders and Developers Private Limited
4
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
5
PP Devcon Private Limited
6
Rivaj Infratech Private Limited
7
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP (w.e.f. 21.05.2022)
8
Sri Balaji Green Heights Private Limited
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 209 
S. No.
Name of Company
V Step Subsidiary Companies
1
Aadhira Developers Private Limited
2
Aarzoo Technobuild Private Limited
3
Abhas Realcon Private Limited
4
Abheek Builders Private Limited
5
Adesh Realcon Private Limited
6
Anveshan Builders Private Limited
7
Ashok Infrabuild Private Limited
8
Ashray Infrabuild Private Limited
9
Aviral Colonizers Private Limited
10
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
11
Caspian Realtors Private Limited
12
Daman Builders Private Limited
13
Damodar Infratech Private Limited
14
Davesh Technobuild Private Limited
15
Dinkar Realcon Private Limited
16
Ekapad Developers Private Limited
17
Estatelance Developers Private Limited (w.e.f. 09.09.2022)
18
Estatelance Real Estate Private Limited (w.e.f. 08.12.2022)
19
Glacier Agro Foods Products Private Limited
20
Hemang Buildcon private Limited
21
Hiresh Builders Private Limited
22
Manit Developers Private Limited
23
Navadip Developers Private Limited
24
NRI City Developers Private Limited
25
Oasis Suncity Realtors Private Limited
26
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private Limited
27
Radiance Housing and Properties Private Limited
28
Reliable Manpower Solutions Limited
29
RPS Suncity Promoters and Developers Private Limited
30
Rupesh Infratech private Limited
31
S N Realtors Private Limited
32
Salvatore Infra Buildtech Limited (w.e.f. 18.03.2023)
33
Sanvim Developers Private Limited
34
Satkar Colonisers Private Limited
35
Satvik Hitech Builders Private Limited
36
Shubh Bhumi Developers Private Limited
37
Tejpal Infra Developers Private Limited
38
Utkrisht Real Estate and Associates Private Limited
VI Associates Company
1
Capital Redevelopment Private Limited
2
FBD Real Grow Private Limited
3
Omaxe Be Together Project Developers Private Limited (Formerly known as Be Together Vrindavan 
Developers Private Limited) (w.e.f. 29.12.2022)
4
Parkash Omaxe Amusement Park Private Limited
5
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP (up to 20.05.2022)
VII Entities over which key managerial personnel or their relatives exercises significant control
1
Aanchal Infrabuild Private Limited
2
Abhay Technobuild Private Limited
3
Abhiman Buildtech Private Limited
4
Absolute Infrastructure Private Limited
210 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Name of Company
5
Adil Developers Private Limited
6
Advaita Properties Private Limited
7
Advay Properties Private Limited
8
Agasthya Properties Private Limited
9
Alpesh Builders Private Limited
10
Amber Infrabuild Private Limited
11
Amit Jain Builders Private Limited
12
Amod Builders Private Limited
13
Ananddeep Realtors Private Limited
14
Anant Realcon Private Limited
15
Aneesh Buildtech Private Limited
16
Apoorva Infrabuild Private Limited
17
Arhant Infrabuild Private Limited
18
Aric Infrabuild Private Limited
19
Arjit Builders Private Limited
20
Art Balcony Private Limited
21
Avindra Estate Developers Private Limited
22
Avval Builders Private Limited
23
Balesh Technobuild Private Limited
24
Bali Buildtech Private Limited
25
Bandhu Buildtech Private Limited
26
Beautiful Landbase Private Limited
27
Bhargav Builders Private Limited
28
Bhavesh Buildcon Private Limited
29
Chaitanya Realcon Private Limited
30
Chetan Infrabuild Private Limited
31
Chirag Buildhome Private Limited
32
Cress Propbuild Private Limited
33
Daksh Township Private Limited
34
Deejit Developers Private Limited
35
Deepaalay Realtors Private Limited
36
Deepal Township Private Limited
37
Deepsing Realtors Private Limited
38
Desire Housing and Construction Private Limited
39
Devgar Estate Developers Private Limited
40
Distinctive Infrastructure And Construction Private Limited
41
Dream Technobuild Private Limited
42
Dream Towers Private Limited
43
DVM Realtors Private Limited
44
Excellent Apartments Private Limited
45
Fast Track Buildcon Private Limited
46
Garg and Goel Estate Developers Private Limited
47
Garg Realtors Private Limited
48
Garvish Realtors Private Limited
49
Gaurang Buildcon Private Limited
50
Geet Buildhome Private Limited
51
Girish Buildwell Private Limited
52
Goel Isha Colonisers Private Limited
53
Green Earth Promoters Private Limited
54
Gurmeet Builders Private Limited
55
Hina Technobuild Private Limited
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 211 
S. No.
Name of Company
56
Indrasan Developers Private Limited
57
Istuti Realcon Private Limited
58
Jagat Buildtech Private Limited
59
Jaidev Colonisers Private Limited
60
Jishnu Buildcon Private Limited
61
Jitenjay Realtors Private Limited
62
Jivish Colonisers Private Limited
63
JSM Enterprises Private Limited
64
Kalp Buildtech Private Limited
65
Kanak Buildhome Private Limited
66
Kartik Buildhome Private Limited
67
KBM Constructions Private Limited
68
Kishordeep Realtors Private Limited
69
Krishan Kripa Buildcon Private Limited
70
Laldeep Realtors Private Limited
71
Lavanya Builders Private Limited
72
Lifestyle Township Private Limited
73
Lohith Developers Private Limited
74
Luxury Township Private Limited
75
Mangal Bhumi Properties Private Limited
76
Mangla Villas Private Limited
77
Mankish Colonisers Private Limited
78
Manwal Colonisers Private Limited
79
Meghmala Builders Private Limited
80
Mihir Buildwell Private Limited
81
Milestone Township Private Limited
82
Motto Developers Private Limited
83
Nakul Technobuild Private Limited
84
Naptune Technobuild Projects Private Limited
85
Natraj Colonisers Private Limited
86
Naveenraj Realtors Private Limited
87
Neegar Developers Private Limited
88
New Horizons Township Developers Private Limited
89
Omaxe Affordable Homes Private Limited
90
Omaxe Hotels Limited
91
Omaxe Realtors Limited
92
P N Buildcon Private Limited
93
Parjit Realtors Private Limited
94
Prabal Developers Private Limited
95
Praveen Buildcon Private Limited
96
Praveen Mehta Builders Private Limited
97
PSJ Developers Private Limited
98
Puru Builders Private Limited
99
Ramniya Estate Developers Private Limited
100
Raveendeep Colonisers Private Limited
101
Rocky Valley Resorts Private Limited
102
Sandeep Landcon Private Limited
103
Sandeep Township Private Limited
104
Sangupt Developers Private Limited
105
Sanjit Realtors Private Limited
106
Sankalp Realtors Private Limited
212 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Name of Company
107
Sanya Realtors Private Limited
108
Savim Realtors Private Limited
109
Sentinent Properties Private Limited
110
Shalin Buildwell Private Limited
111
Shantiniwas Developers Private Limited
112
Shardul Builders Private Limited
113
Shashank Buildhome Private Limited
114
Shivshakti Realbuild Private Limited
115
Shreyas Buildhome Private Limited
116
Singdeep Estate Developers Private Limited
117
Smart Buildhome Private Limited
118
Snehal Buildcon Private Limited
119
SNJ Builders Private Limited
120
Source Developers Private Limited
121
Spike Developers Private Limited
122
Starex Projects Private Limited
123
Starshine Realtors Private Limited
124
Stepping Stone Buildhome Private Limited
125
Stronghold Properties Private Limited
126
Subodh Buildwell Private Limited
127
Sumedha Builders Private Limited
128
Sunrise Township Private Limited
129
Sunview Township Private Limited
130
Swapan Sunder Township Developers Private Limited
131
Swapnil Buildhome Private Limited
132
Swarg Sukh Buildhome Private Limited
133
Taru Buildcon Private Limited
134
True Dreams Developers Private Limited
135
True Estate Build Developers Private Limited
136
True Gem Tech Developers Private Limited
137
Tushar Landcon Private Limited
138
Udal Properties Private Limited
139
Umang Buildcon Private Limited
140
Vaibhav Technobuild Private Limited
141
Vaman Buildhome Private Limited
142
Veenish Realtors Private Limited
143
VGSG Realtors Private Limited
144
Vimsan Realtors Private Limited
145
Vineera Colonisers Private Limited
VIII Entities over which key managerial personnel or their relatives exercises significant influence
1
Affordable India Housing Finance Limited
2
Ajitesh Consultants Private Limited (w.e.f. 28.10.2022)
3
Asian Fast Food Services Private Limited
4
Axeom Advertising Solutions Limited
5
B D Agarwal Securities Private Limited
6
Be Together Developers Private Limited 
7
Bharatbhoomi Township Limited
8
Big Bulls Retails Private Limited (w.e.f. 04.04.2022)
9
Blossom Buildhome Private Limited
10
Buildwell Builders Private Limited
11
Dwarkadish Land and Farms Private Limited
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 213 
S. No.
Name of Company
12
Examo Estate Management Private Limited
13
Inesh Buildcon Private Limited
14
ISG Brands Private Limited
15
Jai Bhoomi Projects Limited
16
Kahn Retails Private Limited (w.e.f. 29.06.2022)
17
Khushiyon Ka Ghar Private Limited (w.e.f. 13.03.2023)
18
LB Circle India Private Limited
19
M/s Rohtas Goel (HUF)
20
Maa Omwati Education Trust
21
Magppie Living Private Limited
22
Next10 Buildtech Private Limited
23
Next10 Land Developers Private Limited
24
Next10 Realbuild Private Limited
25
Next10 Redevelopment Private Limited
26
NJS Developers Private Limited
27
OH-Max Entertainment Private Limited
28
Omaxe Foundation (Regd.)
29
Omaxe Global Trading Corporation Private Limited
30
Omaxe Housing And Commercial Projects Limited
31
Omaxe Orissa Developers Limited
32
Omaxe Pragati Maidan Exhibition Limited
33
Omaxe Retail Limited
34
Radhika Buildwell Private Limited
35
Supplified Technologies Private Limited
36
Vingar Developers Private Limited
37
VSG Builders Private Limited
IX Key Managerial Personnel/Directors/CEO
1
Mr. Rohtas Goel-Chairman & Whole Time Director
2
Mr. Mohit Goel-Managing Director 
3
Mr. Vinit Goyal-Whole Time Director 
4
Mr. Atul Banshal-Director Finance
5
Mr. Manoj Kumar Dua-Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. 15.11.2022)
6
Mr. Arun Kumar Pandey-Chief Financial Officer (Up to 14.11.2022)
7
Mr. Vikas Khandelwal-Company Secretary (w.e.f. 14.02.2023)
8
Mr. Navin Jain-Company Secretary (Up to 13.02.2023)
X Directors other than KMP
1
Mr. Gurnam Singh-Independent Director
2
Mr. Shridhar Rao-Independent Director
3
Ms. Nishal Jain-Independent Director
XI Relatives of Key Managerial Personnel
1
Mr. Jatin Goel
2
Mr. J B Goel
3
Mr. Sunil Goel
214 
Omaxe Limited
B.	 Summary of related parties transactions are as under:
(Rupees in crore)
S. No.
Nature of Transactions
Year ended
Holding 
Company/ 
Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries
Limited Liability 
Partnership/ 
Associate
Entities over 
which key 
managerial 
personnel 
and/or their 
relatives 
exercise 
significant 
control
Entities over 
which key 
managerial 
personnel 
and/or their 
relatives 
exercise 
significant 
influence
Key Managerial 
Personnel/ 
Directors/ CEO 
& Relatives of 
Key Managerial 
Personnel
Total
A 
Transactions made during the year
1
Income from real estate 
projects
31-Mar-23
-
-
-
4.75
-
-
4.75
31-Mar-22
-
10.23
-
9.72
-
-
19.95
2
Income from trading 
goods
31-Mar-23
-
0.81
-
-
-
-
0.81
31-Mar-22
-
0.98
-
-
-
-
0.98
3
Lease rent received
31-Mar-23
0.02
-
-
-
-
-
0.02
31-Mar-22
0.02
-
-
-
-
-
0.02
4
Project Management 
services received
31-Mar-23
-
4.05
-
-
-
-
4.05
31-Mar-22
-
4.05
-
-
-
-
4.05
5
Sale of fixed assets
31-Mar-23
0.98
-
-
-
-
0.98
31-Mar-22
1.29
-
-
-
-
1.29
6
Guarantee Charges 
recovered
31-Mar-23
-
1.63
-
-
-
-
1.63
31-Mar-22
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
7
Land, development & 
other rights purchased
31-Mar-23
-
-
-
(0.40)
-
-
(0.40)
31-Mar-22
-
0.88
-
(0.45)
-
-
0.43
8
Purchase of fixed assets
31-Mar-23
-
0.82
-
-
-
-
0.82
31-Mar-22
-
0.73
-
-
-
-
0.73
9
Building material 
purchases
31-Mar-23
-
1.05
-
-
-
-
1.05
31-Mar-22
-
2.92
-
-
-
-
2.92
10
Construction Cost
31-Mar-23
-
0.07
-
-
-
-
0.07
31-Mar-22
-
0.06
-
-
-
-
0.06
11
Interest on Preference 
Shares
31-Mar-23
14.48
-
14.48
31-Mar-22
12.38
-
12.38
12
Interest Cost
31-Mar-23
-
1.84
-
-
-
-
1.84
31-Mar-22
-
1.85
-
-
-
-
1.85
13
Remuneration
31-Mar-23
-
-
-
-
-
10.47
10.47
31-Mar-22
-
-
-
-
-
8.46
8.46
14
Royalty paid
31-Mar-23
-
-
-
-
-
0.50
0.50
31-Mar-22
-
-
-
-
-
0.05
0.05
15
Directors sitting fees
31-Mar-23
-
-
-
-
-
0.18
0.18
31-Mar-22
-
-
-
-
-
0.32
0.32
16
Lease rent paid
31-Mar-23
0.18
-
-
-
0.42
-
0.60
31-Mar-22
0.18
-
-
-
0.42
-
0.60
17
Recovery of finance cost
31-Mar-23
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
31-Mar-22
-
0.36
-
-
-
-
0.36
18
Donation Paid
31-Mar-23
-
-
-
-
0.20
-
0.20
31-Mar-22
-
-
-
-
0.31
-
0.31
19
Corporate Guarantee 
Charges
31-Mar-23
-
0.05
-
-
-
-
0.05
31-Mar-22
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
20
Share of Customer 
advance as per revenue 
share agreement
31-Mar-23
-
(171.80)
-
4.50
(167.30)
31-Mar-22
-
63.29
-
-
-
-
63.29
21
Reimbursement of Bank 
Guarantee Commission
31-Mar-23
-
0.81
-
-
-
-
0.81
31-Mar-22
-
0.74
-
-
-
-
0.74
22
Investments Made
31-Mar-23
-
7.95
0.00
-
-
-
7.95
31-Mar-22
-
0.18
0.00
-
-
-
0.18
23
Investments Made in 
Compulsory Convertible 
Debentures
31-Mar-23
-
32.40
-
-
-
-
32.40
31-Mar-22
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
24
Advance Paid
31-Mar-23
6.71
1,173.91
0.64
2.76
2.90
-
1,186.92
31-Mar-22
0.33
757.05
4.95
4.86
0.30
-
767.49
25
Advances received/
refund
31-Mar-23
2.66
1,139.87
0.64
6.38
5.33
-
1,154.88
31-Mar-22
0.57
680.75
0.00
6.81
0.30
-
688.43
26
Loan received
31-Mar-23
6.00
6.00
31-Mar-22
15.54
15.54
27
Loan paid
31-Mar-23
2.05
34.54
2.90
39.49
31-Mar-22
0.02
0.37
0.39
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 215 
S. No.
Nature of Transactions
Year ended
Holding 
Company/ 
Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries
Limited Liability 
Partnership/ 
Associate
Entities over 
which key 
managerial 
personnel 
and/or their 
relatives 
exercise 
significant 
control
Entities over 
which key 
managerial 
personnel 
and/or their 
relatives 
exercise 
significant 
influence
Key Managerial 
Personnel/ 
Directors/ CEO 
& Relatives of 
Key Managerial 
Personnel
Total
28
Bank guarantees 
matured
31-Mar-23
-
10.02
-
-
-
-
10.02
31-Mar-22
-
0.14
-
-
-
-
0.14
29
Corporate guarantees 
given
31-Mar-23
470.00
470.00
31-Mar-22
-
B
Closing balances
 
1
Trade receivable
31-Mar-23
-
0.14
-
19.01
-
-
19.15
31-Mar-22
-
0.14
-
19.01
-
-
19.15
2
Loans & advances 
recoverable
31-Mar-23
-
1,450.81
-
3.45
-
1,454.26
31-Mar-22
-
1,544.89
4.33
7.83
-
1,557.05
3
Trade payables
31-Mar-23
-
6.11
-
-
-
-
6.11
31-Mar-22
-
8.21
-
-
-
-
8.21
4
Advances/balance 
outstanding
31-Mar-23
12.17
41.43
-
17.09
2.83
1.41
74.93
31-Mar-22
16.22
172.50
0.00
13.63
0.42
6.62
209.39
5
Loans received 
outstanding
31-Mar-23
13.86
-
-
-
0.02
13.88
31-Mar-22
15.91
27.58
-
-
-
2.92
46.41
6
 Preference share capital 
balance outstanding
31-Mar-23
99.75
-
-
-
-
-
99.75
31-Mar-22
85.27
-
-
-
-
-
85.27
7
Lease security payable
31-Mar-23
0.01
0.01
31-Mar-22
0.01
0.01
8
Bank guarantees
31-Mar-23
-
50.43
-
-
-
-
50.43
31-Mar-22
-
60.45
-
-
-
-
60.45
9
Corporate guarantees
31-Mar-23
-
707.59
-
-
-
-
707.59
31-Mar-22
-
493.96
-
-
-
-
493.96
	
# Expenses towards gratuity and leave encashment provisions are determined actuarially on an overall group basis at the 
end of each year and accordingly have not been considered in the above information.
C.	 Particulars of related party transactions during the year:
(Rupees in crore)
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
A
Transactions made during the year
1
Income from real estate projects
 
 
 
Oasis Township Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.03 
 
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 10.20 
 
Anant Realcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.80 
 
Apoorva Infrabuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.59 
 4.09 
 
Beautiful Landbase Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.49 
 0.20 
 
Bhavesh Buildcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.20 
 0.24 
 
Geet Buildhome Private Lmoted
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.70 
216 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Mihir Buildwell Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.36 
 0.09 
 
Spike Developers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.03 
 
Stronghold Properties Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.66 
 3.54 
 
Mankish Colonisers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.03 
 
Balesh Technobuild Private Limited 
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 1.20 
 - 
 
Shreyas Buildhome Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.20 
 - 
 
 Kanak Build Home Privare Limited 
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 1.05 
 - 
 
 
 
 
2
Income from trading goods
 
 
 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.00 
 0.01 
 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 0.01 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.48 
 0.61 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.06 
 0.03 
 
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 0.02 
 
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.05 
 0.04 
 
 Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.04 
 0.05 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.03 
 0.06 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.02 
 0.07 
 
Hartal Builders and Developers 
Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 0.00 
 - 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 0.11 
 0.08 
 
 
 
 
3
Lease rent received
 
 
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
 0.01 
 0.01 
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
 0.01 
 0.01 
 
 
 
 
4
Project Management services 
received
 
 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 4.05 
 4.05 
 
 
 
 
5
Sale of fixed assets
 
 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 217 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.32 
 0.01 
 
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00 
 0.04 
 
 Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.04 
 - 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.46 
 0.90 
 
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.02 
 - 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 0.14 
 0.34 
 
 
 
 
6
Guarantee Charges recovered
 
 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.63 
 - 
 
 
 
 
7
Land, development & other rights 
purchased
 
 
 
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.88 
 
Raveendeep Colonisers Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
-
 (0.14)
 
PSJ Developers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
- 
 (0.08)
 
Sandeep Township Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 (0.40)
 (0.07)
 
Sandeep Landcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
- 
 (0.16)
 
 
 
 
8
Purchase of fixed assets
 
 
 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 0.03 
 
Jagdamba Contractors & Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.22 
 0.34 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.01 
 
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00
 0.03 
 
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.01 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.03 
 0.19 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.17 
 - 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.09 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.00 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 0.39 
 0.03 
 
 
 
 
9
Building material purchases
 
 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.02 
 - 
 
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.03 
 0.03 
218 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.42 
 0.89 
 
Jagdamba Contractors and Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.04 
 0.87 
 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.05 
 0.04 
 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.09 
 0.13 
 
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.04 
 0.29 
 
 Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.18 
 0.04 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.05 
 0.14 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.04 
 0.07 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited 
Other Subsidiary
 0.09 
 0.42 
 
 
 
 
10
Construction Cost
 
 
 
Jagdamba Contractors and Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.07 
 0.06 
 
 
 
 
11
Interest on Preference Shares
 
 
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
 14.48 
 12.38 
 
 
 
 
12
Interest Cost
 
 
 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.34 
 0.23 
 
Jagdamba Contractors And Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.41 
 1.62 
 
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.05 
 - 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.04 
 - 
 
 
 
 
13
Remuneration
 
 
 
Rohtas Goel
Key Managerial Person
 4.80 
 4.80 
 
Mohit Goel
Key Managerial Person
 1.65 
 1.44 
 
Vinit Goyal
Key Managerial Person
 0.50 
 0.48 
 
Atul Banshal
Key Managerial Person
 1.10 
 0.11 
 
Arun kumar Pandey (up to 14.11.2022)
Key Managerial Person
 0.29 
 0.47 
 
 Manoj Kumar Dua(w.e.f.15.11.2022) 
Key Managerial Person
 0.36 
 - 
 
Navin Jain (up to 13.02.2023)
Key Managerial Person
 0.40 
 0.47 
 
Vikas Khandelwal(w.e.f.14.02.2023)
Key Managerial Person
 0.11 
 - 
 
Jatin Goel
Relatives of key managerial personnel
 1.26 
 0.69 
 
 
 
 
14
Royalty paid
 
 
 
 Rohtas Goel
Key Managerial Person
 0.50 
 0.05 
 
 
 
 
15
Directors sitting fees
 
 
 
Gurnam Singh
Key Managerial Person
 0.06 
 0.12 
 
Shridhar Rao
Key Managerial Person
 0.06 
 0.08 
 
Nishal Jain
Key Managerial Person
 0.06 
 0.12 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 219 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
 
 
 
16
Lease rent paid
 
 
 
Hansa Properties Private Limited
Fellow Subsidiaries
 0.18 
 0.18 
 
Buildwell Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 0.18 
 0.18 
 
B D Agarwal Securities Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.24 
 0.24 
 
 
 
 
17
Recovery of finance cost
 
 
 
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.36 
 
 
 
 
18
Donation Paid
 
 
 
Omaxe Foundation (Regd)
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 0.20 
 0.31 
 
 
 
 
19
Corporate Guarantee Charges
 
 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.05 
 - 
 
 
 
 
20
Share of Customer advance as per 
revenue share agreement
 
 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 (175.63)
 59.87 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 3.68 
 3.40 
 
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 (0.03)
 0.00 
 
Navratan Techbuild Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.00 
 
S N Realtors Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.18 
 0.02 
 
Arjit Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 4.50 
 - 
 
 
 
 
21
Reimbursement of Bank Guarantee 
Commission
 
 
 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00 
 0.00 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00 
 - 
 
Omaxe Forest Spa And Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.19 
0.08
 
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 0.02 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
0.00
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.14 
0.14
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 0.47 
 0.50 
 
 
 
 
22
Investments Made
 
 
 
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
220 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Aashna Realcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Sarva Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Silver Peak Township Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.05 
 
Ayush Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Chapal Buildhome Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
MR  Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Nexten Infra Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Nexten Real Growth Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Nexten Super Growth Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
- 
 0.01 
 
Colors Real Estate Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 2.50 
 - 
 
Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 5.40 
 - 
 
Omaxe New Amritsar Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
Blackbull Retails Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
Omaxe Next Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
Worldstreet Sports Center Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
Dreamze New Faridabad Developers 
LLP
Other Subsidiary
 0.00 
- 
 
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP
Other Subsidiary
 0.01 
 
 
FBD Realgrow Private Limited
Associate Company
- 
 0.00 
 
Omaxe Be Together Project 
Developers Private Limited
Associate Company
 0.00 
 - 
 
 
 
 
23
Investments Made in Compulsory 
Convertible Debentures
 
 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited 
Other Subsidiary
 32.40 
 - 
 
 
 
 
24
Advance Paid
 
 
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
 6.71 
 0.31 
 
Arman Builders Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 30.31 
 65.35 
 
Ayush Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.47 
 5.74 
 
Chapal Buildhome Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 7.99 
 0.01 
 
Jagdamba Contractors And Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.75 
 - 
 
Kamini Builders And Promoters 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
 
Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 64.78 
 - 
 
Mr Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 18.49 
 - 
 
Navratan Techbuild Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 0.02 
 
Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.63 
 - 
 
Nexten Infra Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00 
 7.18 
 
Nexten Real Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.10 
 - 
 
Nexten Super Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00 
 - 
 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 43.08 
 7.05 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 221 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 17.48 
 9.76 
 
Omaxe Forest Spa And Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 39.48 
 26.58 
 
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 250.26 
 - 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 78.78 
 69.56 
 
Omaxe Housing & Infrastructure 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
Omaxe Housing And Developers 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 10.35 
 41.15 
 
Omaxe Indore Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 37.97 
 - 
 
Omaxe Infrastructure Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 14.07 
 0.85 
 
Omaxe International Bazaar Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 4.81 
 0.51 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 141.59 
 101.53 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 31.88 
 5.39 
 
Omtech Infrastructure & Construction 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.98 
 63.49 
 
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 9.22 
 0.05 
 
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 19.14 
 18.06 
 
Sarva Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 4.58 
 0.03 
 
Shikhar Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
Silver Peak Township Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 6.14 
 0.06 
 
Worldstreet Sports Center Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 5.73 
 - 
 
Colors Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 59.89 
 0.01 
 
Omaxe New Amritsar Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 17.62 
 - 
 
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 3.68 
 
JRS Projects Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.09 
 
Kashish Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.83 
 
Landlord Developers Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.01 
 
National Affordable Housing & 
Infrastructure Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.05 
 
Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 7.18 
 
Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.00 
 
Kamini Builders and Promoters 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.24 
 - 
 
S N Realtors Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.90 
 21.87 
 
Satvik Hitech Builders Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.10 
 140.00 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.95 
 8.22 
 
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private 
Limited
Step Subsidiary
 46.36 
 48.29 
 
Ashray Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.14 
 - 
 
Davesh Technobuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.06 
 - 
 
Hemang Buildcon Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.09 
 - 
 
Reliable Manpower Solutions Limited
Step Subsidiary
 0.03 
 - 
 
Sanvim Developers Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.07 
 - 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 195.26 
 101.90 
 
Rivaj Infratech Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 0.04 
 0.02 
222 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Hartal Builders And Developers 
Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 9.06 
 2.42 
 
PP Devcon Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 - 
 0.11 
 
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP (upto 
20.05.2022)
Associate Company
 - 
 4.95 
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
 - 
 0.02 
 
Fbd Realgrow Private Limited
Associate Company
 0.03 
 - 
Omaxe Be Together Project 
Developers Private Limited 
Associate Company
 0.61
 - 
 
Axeom Advertising Solutions Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 1.90 
 - 
 
Oh-Max Entertainment Private Limited Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 1.00 
 0.29 
 
Blossom Buildhome Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 0.00 
 - 
 
Buildwell Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 - 
 0.01 
 
Anant Realcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.06 
 0.00 
 
Balesh Technobuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.00 
 
Lavanya Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.01 
 - 
 
Mihir Buildwell Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 1.11 
 - 
 
Subodh Buildwell Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.96 
 0.00 
 
Milestone Township Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.10 
 - 
 
Beautiful Landbase Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.05 
 0.08 
 
Bhavesh Buildcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.06 
 0.03 
 
Shreyas Buildhome Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.01 
 0.01 
 
Sandeep Township Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.40 
 0.08 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 223 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Apoorva Infrabuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 3.44 
 
Deepsingh Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.06 
 
DVM Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.02 
 
Dream Towers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.06 
 
Garg And Goel Estate Developers 
Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.02 
 
Motto Developers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.04 
 
Omaxe Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.01 
 
PSJ Developers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.09 
 
Praveen Mehta Builders Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.11 
 
Raveendeep Colonisers Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.14 
 
Sandeep Landcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.18 
 
Sankalp Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.04 
 
Stronghold Properties Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.27 
 
Sumedha Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.04 
 
True Estate Build Developers Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.03 
 
Vimsan Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.04 
 
Goel Isha Colonisers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.06 
 
Shalin Buildwell Private Limited 
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.01 
224 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Geet Buildhome Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.00 
 
Nakul Techno-Build Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.00 
 
Kanak Build Home Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.00 
 
 
 
 
25
Advances received/refund
 
 
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
 2.66 
 0.57 
 
Arman Builders Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 29.47 
 40.38 
 
Atulah Contractors And Constructions 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.04 
 - 
 
Ayush Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.73 
 4.39 
 
Jagdamba Contractors And Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.52 
 - 
 
Kashish Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.20 
 0.26 
 
MR Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00 
 - 
 
Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.62 
 - 
 
Nexten Real Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.09 
 - 
 
Nexten Super Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00 
 - 
 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 6.09 
 20.97 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 3.53 
 1.95 
 
Omaxe Forest Spa And Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 7.28 
 30.76 
 
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 566.46 
 - 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 39.50 
 171.41 
 
Omaxe Housing & Infrastructure 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
Omaxe Housing And Developers 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.26 
 20.19 
 
Omaxe Indore Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 30.33 
 - 
 
Omaxe Infrastructure Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.62 
 - 
 
Omaxe International Bazaar Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 2.90 
 - 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 241.44 
 206.04 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 48.54 
 32.08 
 
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 2.39 
 1.36 
 
Zodiac Housing & Infrastructure 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.05 
 - 
 
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 7.04 
 - 
 
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.00 
 
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.00 
 
Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.00 
 
Navratan Techbuild Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.13 
 
Oasis Township Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.01 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 225 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Atulah Contractors And Constructions 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.08 
 - 
 
Jagdamba Contractors And Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.98 
 - 
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
 
S N Realtors Private Limited
Step Subsidiary
 1.08 
 4.52 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Subsidiary
 11.68 
 4.60 
 
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private 
Limited
Step Subsidiary
 1.13 
 2.61 
 
Ashray Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Subsidiary
 0.14 
 - 
 
Davesh Technobuild Private Limited
Step Subsidiary
 0.06 
 - 
 
Hemang Buildcon Private Limited
Step Subsidiary
 0.09 
 - 
 
Sanvim Developers Private Limited
Step Subsidiary
 0.07 
 - 
 
Hartal Builders And Developers 
Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 0.22 
 5.96 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 134.54 
 131.45 
 
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP
Other Subsidiary
 1.75 
 1.42 
 
Giant Dragon Mart Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 - 
 0.01 
 
PP Devcon Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 - 
 0.25 
 
Fbd Realgrow Private Limited
Associate Company
 0.03 
 0.00 
Omaxe Be Together Project 
Developers Private Limited
Associate Company
 0.61 
- 
 
Be Together Developers Private 
Limited 
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 2.43 
 - 
 
Axeom Advertising Solutions Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 1.90 
 - 
 
Oh-Max Entertainment Private Limited Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 1.00 
 0.29 
 
Buildwell Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 - 
 0.01 
 
Dream Towers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.03 
 - 
 
Kanak Build Home Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.24 
 0.00 
 
Mihir Buildwell Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.65 
 1.50 
 
Omaxe Realtors Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 4.26 
 - 
 
Rocky Valley Resorts Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.04 
 - 
 
Stepping Stone Buildhome Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.31 
 - 
226 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Stronghold Properties Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.33 
 0.50 
 
Apoorva Infrabuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.04 
 3.59 
 
Beautiful Landbase Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.02 
 - 
 
Bhavesh Buildcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.04 
 - 
 
Shreyas Buildhome Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.01 
 0.01 
 
Nakul Technobuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.10 
 0.19 
 
Sandeep Township Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.31 
 0.08 
 
Anant Realcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.06 
 
Geet Buildhome Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.00 
 
Balesh Technobuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.00 
 
Deepsingh Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.02 
 
DVM Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.02 
 
Goel Isha Colonisers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.06 
 
Lavanya Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.02 
 
Naveenraj Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.15 
 
Praveen Mehta Builders Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.06 
 
PSJ Developers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.09 
 
Raveendeep Colonisers Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.25 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 227 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Sandeep Landcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.16 
 
Shalin Buildwell Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.01 
 
Subodh Buildwell Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.02 
 
Vineera Colonisers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.02 
 
 
 
 
26
Loan received
 
 
 
Atulah Contractors And Constructions 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 2.20 
0.98
 
Jagdamba Contractors And Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 3.80 
14.56 
 
 
 
 
27
Loan paid
 
 
 
Atulah Contractors And Constructions 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 5.43 
 0.37 
 
Jagdamba Contractors And Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 29.11 
 - 
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
 2.05 
 0.02 
 
Rohtas Goel
Key Managerial Person/Directors
 2.90 
- 
 
 
 
 
28
Bank guarantees matured
 
 
 
Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 3.97 
 - 
 
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.10 
 - 
 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.08 
 - 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.03 
 - 
 
 Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.10 
 - 
 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.04 
 - 
 
Omaxe Housing and Developers 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.02 
 - 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 1.55 
 0.14 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.01 
 - 
 
S.N. Realtors Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 4.02 
 - 
 
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private 
Limited
Step Subsidiary
 0.10 
 - 
 
 
 
 
29
Corporate guarantees given
 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 440.00 
 - 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 30.00 
 - 
228 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
 
 
 
B
Closing Balances
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Trade receivable
 
 
 
Oasis Township Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.14 
 0.14 
 
Kalp Buildtech Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 19.01 
 19.01 
 
 
 
 
2
Loans & advances recoverable
 
 
 
Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private 
Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
64.78
 - 
 
Hamara Ghar Construction & 
Developers Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.04
 0.04 
 
Landlord Developers Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
6.21
 6.20 
 
Omaxe Indore Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
7.64
 - 
 
Omaxe Power Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.14
 0.14 
 
Omaxe International Bazaar Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
2.50
 0.59 
 
Zodiac Housing & Infrastructure 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.05 
 
Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.01
 0.01 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
416.99
 516.83 
 
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
41.26
 357.56 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
342.16
 358.90 
 
Navratan Techbuild Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
1.34
 1.33 
 
Anjaniputra Builders Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
6.49
 6.49 
 
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
45.29
 13.09 
 
Kashish Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
3.84
 4.04 
 
Shikhar Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
1.00
 1.00 
 
Arman Builders Private Limted
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
33.46
 32.62 
 
Ayush Landcon Private Limted
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
12.55
 12.81 
 
Omtech Infrastructure and 
Construction Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
65.47
 63.49 
 
Silver Peak Township Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
6.20
 0.06 
 
Satvik Hitech Builders Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
1.19
 1.10 
 
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
3.68
 3.68 
 
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
52.86
 0.01 
 
Sarva Buildtech Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
4.61
 0.03 
 
Nexten Infra Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
7.18
 7.18 
 
Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
7.18
 7.18 
 
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
33.45
 16.70 
 
Chapal Buildhome Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
8.00
 0.01 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
51.79
 12.50 
 
Omaxe New Amristsar Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
17.62
 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 229 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Omaxe Housing And Developers 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
7.87
 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
10.71
 
 
Nexten Real Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.01
 
 
Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.01
 
 
MR Real Estate Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
18.49
 
 
Worldstreet Sports Center Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
5.73
 
 
Colors Real Estate Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.43
 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 10.69 
 
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private 
Limited
Step Subsidiary
135.80
 90.57 
 
Reliable Manpower Solution Limited
Step Subsidiary
0.03
 - 
 
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP
Other Subsidiary
2.58
- 
 
Sri Balaji Green Heights Private 
Limited
Other Subsidiary
3.16
 3.16 
 
Giant Dragon Mart Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
0.71
 0.71 
 
Hartal Builders And Developers 
Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
4.23
- 
 
PP Devcon Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
16.12
 16.12 
 
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP (upto 
20.05.2022)
Associate
- 
 4.33 
 
Balesh Technobuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.06
 - 
 
Dream Towers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.03
 0.05 
 
Garg and Goel Estate Developers 
Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.02
 0.02 
 
Stepping Stone Buildhome Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.31 
 
Omaxe Affordable Homes Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.03
 0.03 
 
Istuti Realcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
1.14
 1.15 
 
Rocky Valley Resorts Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.04 
 
Agastaya Properties Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.01
 0.01 
 
Kalp Buildtech Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.14
 0.14 
 
Cress Propbuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
1.83
 1.83 
230 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Omaxe Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 4.25 
 
Blossom Buildhome Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.01
 - 
 
Sandeep Township Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.08
 - 
 
Milestone Township Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.10
 - 
 
 
 
 
3
Trade payables
 
 
 
Jagdamba Contractors and Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 4.72 
 6.88 
 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 1.39 
 1.33 
 
 
 
 
4
Advances/balance outstanding
 
 
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
12.17
 16.22 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 - 
 
Omaxe Housing And Developers 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 2.22 
 
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.00 
 9.26 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 3.24 
 
Omaxe Infrastructure Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.24 
 13.69 
 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 22.89 
 59.88 
 
Kamini Builders and Promoters 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.38 
 0.14 
 
Monarch Villas Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 0.06 
 0.06 
 
S N Realtors Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 2.18 
 3.00 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.05
 - 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
4.51
 65.24 
 
Hartal Builders and Developers 
Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 - 
 4.61 
 
Rivaj Infratech Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
 11.12 
 11.16 
 
FBD Realgrow Private Limited
Associate Company
 - 
 0.00 
 
Rohtas Goel
Key Managerial Person
 0.90 
 6.16 
 
Mohit Goel
Key Managerial Person
 0.06 
 0.11 
 
Atul Banshal
Key Managerial Person
 0.09 
 0.08 
 
Vinit Goyal
Key Managerial Person
 0.04 
 0.03 
 
Arun kumar Pandey
Key Managerial Person
 - 
 0.05 
 
Navin Jain
Key Managerial Person
 - 
 0.04 
 
Vikas Khandelwal 
Key Managerial Person
 0.07 
 - 
 
 Manoj Kumar Dua 
Key Managerial Person
 0.05 
 - 
 
Jatin Goel
Relatives of key managerial personnel
 0.08 
 0.03 
 
Jai bhagwan Goel
Relatives of key managerial personnel
 0.12 
 0.12 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 231 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Nakul Techno-Build Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.10
 - 
 
Arjit Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
4.50
 - 
 
Laldeep Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.05 
 0.05 
 
Naveenraj Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.77 
 0.77 
 
Parveen Buildcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.34 
 0.34 
 
Raveendeep Colonisers Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.13 
 0.13 
 
Devgar Estate Developers Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.20 
 0.20 
 
Krishan Kirpa Buildcon Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.06 
 0.06 
 
Savim Realtors Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 2.80 
 2.80 
 
Beautiful Landbase Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.06 
 0.20 
 
Subodh Buildwell Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 3.30 
 4.26 
 
Starex Projects Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 2.66 
 2.66 
 
Sunview Township Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.07 
 0.07 
 
Apoorva Infrabuild Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.20 
 0.15 
 
Bhavesh Buildcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.05 
 0.07 
 
Lavanya Builders Private Limited 
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.07 
 0.08 
 
Stronghold Properties Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.56 
 0.23 
 
Mihir Buildwell Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 0.93 
 1.50 
232 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Anant Realcon Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
 - 
 0.06 
 
Kanak Build Home Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant control
0.24
- 
 
Omaxe Global Trading Corporation 
Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 0.40 
 0.40 
 
Oh-Max Entertainment Private Limited Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 - 
 0.00 
 
Omaxe Foundation (Regd.)
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
 - 
 0.02 
 
Be Together Developers Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
2.43
 - 
 
 
 
 
5
Loans received outstanding
 
 
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
13.86
 13.86 
 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 3.20 
 
Jagdamba Contractors and Builders 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 24.38 
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
 - 
 2.05 
 
Rohtas Goel
Key Managerial Person
 - 
 2.90 
 
Sunil Goel
Relatives of key managerial personnel
 0.02 
 0.02 
 
 
 
 
6
 Preference share capital balance 
outstanding
 
 
 
 Guild Builders Private Limited 
Holding Company
99.75
85.27
 
 
 
 
7
Lease security payable
 
 
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
 0.00 
 0.01 
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
 0.00 
 0.00 
 
OH-Max Entertainment Private 
Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
- 
 0.00 
 
 
 
 
8
Bank guarantees
 
 
 
Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills 
Developers Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
6.86
 10.83 
 
 Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.10 
 
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.01
 0.09 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.03 
 
 Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.03
 0.13 
 
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
0.57
 0.57 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 233 
S. No.
Particular
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.04 
 
Omaxe Housing and Developers 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.02 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
22.28
 22.28 
 
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
5.05
 5.06 
 
S.N. Realtors Private Limited
Step Wholly Owned Subsidiary
2.06
 6.08 
 
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private 
Limited
Step Subsidiary
 - 
 0.10 
 
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
Other Subsidiary
13.57
 15.12 
 
 
 
 
9
Corporate guarantees (Amount 
outstanding in respect of corporate 
guarantees given on account of loan 
availed by subsidiary companies)
 
 
 
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers 
Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 160.97 
 299.51 
 
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 - 
 0.76 
 
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 77.26 
 111.38 
 
Omaxe Housing and Developers 
Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 6.13 
 6.13 
 
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private 
Limited 
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 23.23 
 76.18 
 
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
440.00
 - 
Note 54: Additional Regulatory Information/disclosure (to the extent applicable to the Company)
Note 54.1 Detail of Title deeds of Immovable Properties classified as Property Plant and Equipment not held in name of the 
Company 
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held in 
the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director of 
employee of promoter/
director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from 
Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held in the 
name of company
Land
Land at Agra
52.78 Omaxe Housing 
& Developers 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
wholly owned subsidiary 
Company
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Agra
12.81 Omaxe 
Infrastructure 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
wholly owned subsidiary 
Company
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
234 
Omaxe Limited
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held in 
the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director of 
employee of promoter/
director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from 
Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held in the 
name of company
Land
Land at Agra
26.46 Sumedha Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Forest 
Faridabad
13.23 Lifestyle Township 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Forest 
Faridabad
11.31 Rocky Valley 
Resorts Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
7.55 Prabal Developers 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
7.66 Arjit Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
5.17 Vaibhav 
Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
7.03 Abhay Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
6.75 Swapnil Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
7.28 Gaurang Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 235 
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held in 
the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director of 
employee of promoter/
director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from 
Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held in the 
name of company
Land
Land at Machla
7.39 Chetan Infrabuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
7.39 Girish Buildwell 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
9.37 Chirag Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
7.84 Bandhu Buildtech 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
1.76 Vaibbav 
Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
3.98 Umang Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
5.95 Snehal Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
7.84 Gurmeet Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
8.40 Shashank 
Buildhome Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
236 
Omaxe Limited
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held in 
the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director of 
employee of promoter/
director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from 
Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held in the 
name of company
Land
Land at Machla
6.05 Tushar Landcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
6.84 Sentinent 
Propereties 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
4.96 Bali Buildtech 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
7.27 Chaitnya Realcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
5.18 Hina Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
6.03 Taru Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
1.55 Snehlal Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
3.36 Shardul Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Machla
5.04 Chapal Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 237 
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held in 
the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director of 
employee of promoter/
director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from 
Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held in the 
name of company
Land
Land at Machla
2.35 Vaman Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Mehrauli
3.00 Aashna Realcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Sec-86
30.14 Spike Developers 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Sec-86
11.67 Oasis Township 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at Sec-86
3.75 Indersen 
Developers Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
5.54 Anant Realcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
2.77 Apoorva Infrabuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
2.32 Aric Infrabuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
0.44 Awwal Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
238 
Omaxe Limited
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held in 
the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director of 
employee of promoter/
director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from 
Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held in the 
name of company
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
6.38 Beautiful Landbse 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
5.50 Bhavesh Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
4.11 Geet Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
6.17 Inesh Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
5.60 Kanak Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
2.34 Mihir Buildwell 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
3.14 Nakul Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
12.34 Shalin Buildwell 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
9.72 Shreyash 
Buildhome Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 239 
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held in 
the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director of 
employee of promoter/
director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from 
Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held in the 
name of company
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
1.56 Stronghold 
Properties Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
2.10 Balesh Tecnobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel or 
their relatives exercises 
significant control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company 
due to Land ceiling Act in 
respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
1.78 Chander Bhan S/o. 
Patram Jatav
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of 
individual due to Land ceiling Act 
in respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
0.35 Ghanshyam S/o. 
Bansi Lal
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of 
individual due to Land ceiling Act 
in respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
3.69 Radhey Shyam 
S/o. Bansi Lal
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of 
individual due to Land ceiling Act 
in respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
1.80 Satish Kumar S/o. 
Kishan Singh
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of 
individual due to Land ceiling Act 
in respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
0.47 Sube Singh S/o. 
Loharay Ram
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of 
individual due to Land ceiling Act 
in respective states and later on 
transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through 
development 
right 
agreement in earlier years.
Note 54.2 Enquiry under Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988
The Company does not have any Benami Property, where any proceedings has been initiated or pending against the Company 
for holding any Benami Property under Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988.
240 
Omaxe Limited
Note 54.3 Disclosure on relationship with Struck off Company
Name of the struck off 
company
Nature of transactions 
with struck off 
company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31-Mar-2023  
(Rupees in 
crore)
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31-Mar-2022  
(Rupees in 
crore)
Relationship 
with the 
struck off 
company
Remarks
Gar Infra Reality Private 
Limited
Advance against good/
services
-
0.01 Vendor
Amount 
Written off
Ozone Estates Private 
Limited *
Receivables
4.90
4.90 Vendor
Refer Note 
below *
* The outstanding pertains to Land Advances given. The Company has already filed legal case against the promoters of the 
Company for recovery of amount and matter is sub-judice, however, provision for bad and doubtful advances for equivalent 
amount has already been made in the Financial Statements in previous periods. Since the matter is sub-judice against the 
promoters of the Company, in spite of Company being strike off, the amount outstanding as at balance sheet date has not been 
written off/back.
Note 54.4: The Company has complied with the number of layers prescribed under Companies Act 2013.
Note 54.5: The Company has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an accounting impact on current or 
previous financial year.
Note 54.6: There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during current or previous year in the tax assessment 
under the Income Tax Act 1961 that has not been recorded in books of accounts.
Note 54.7: The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
Note 54.8: The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment or intangible assets or both during the current 
or previous year. 
Note 54.9: Ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
Change in Ratio 
in current year 
as compared to 
preceding year
Reasons for changes 
in ratio by more than 
25% as compared to 
preceding year 
Current ratio
Total current assets
Total current 
liabilities
1.00
1.09
-8%
Debt-Equity ratio
Debit consists of 
borrowing and lease 
liabilities
Total equity
0.50
0.62
-19%
Debt service 
coverage ratio
Earning for Debt 
Service=Net Profit 
after taxes+ Non-cash 
operating expenses+ 
Interest+ Other non-
cash adjustments/
(loss)
Debt 
Service=Interest 
and lease 
payments+ 
Principal 
repayments
0.13
0.27
-52%
Due to increase in 
loss in current year
Return of equity ratio Net Profit/(loss) after 
Tax less Preference 
Dividend
Average total equity
-22%
-7%
-14%
Inventory turnover 
ratio
Cost of sales
Average Inventory
0.19
0.12
57%
Due to increase 
in cost of sales in 
current year
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 241 
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
Change in Ratio 
in current year 
as compared to 
preceding year
Reasons for changes 
in ratio by more than 
25% as compared to 
preceding year 
Trade receivables 
turnover ratio
Revenue from 
Operations
Average trade 
receivables
1.85
1.67
10%
There is increase in 
Revenue
Trade payables 
turnover ratio
Total Purchases
Average trade 
payables
0.75
0.47
61%
Due to increase in 
purchase of land, 
Building Material 
and other direct cost
Net capital turnover 
ratio
Revenue from 
Operations
Working capital (i.e. 
Total current assets 
less Total current 
liabilities)
-757.23
1.09
-69255%
Due to increase in 
loss in current year
Net profit/(loss) ratio
Profit/(loss) for the 
year after tax
Revenue from 
operation
-42%
-19%
-24%
Due to increase in 
loss in current year
Return of capital 
employed
Profit/(loss) before tax 
and Interest
Capital 
employed=Net 
worth+ Total Debt+ 
Lease liabilities+ 
Deferred Tax 
liabilities
5%
3%
-8%
Return of investment Income generated from 
invested funds
Average invested 
funds in treasury 
investments
NA
NA
NA
Note 55: Advances given against Land acquisition, goods / services / acquisition of development right to Vendors related 
parties and security deposits takes substantial period of time to conclude. These advances / securities deposits given in the 
opinion of management are in accordance with normal trade practices in Real Estate Business and are not loans or advances 
in the nature of loans, hence classified accordingly.
Note 56: Standards issued and amended but not effective
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notifies new Indian Accounting Standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On March 23, 2023, MCA amended the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2023 applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
IND AS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements - The amendments require companies to disclose their material accounting 
policy rather than their significant accounting policies. Accounting policy information, together with other information, is 
material when it can reasonably be expected to influence decisions of primary users of general purpose financial statements. 
The company does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statement.
IND AS 12- Income Taxes- The amendments clarify how companies account for deferred tax on transactions such as leases 
and decommissioning obligations. The amendments narrowed the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 and 
24 of Ind AS 12 (recognition exemption) so that it no longer applies to transaction that, on initial recognition, give raise to equal 
taxable and deductible temporary differences. The company is evaluating the impact, if any, in its financial statements.
IND AS 8- Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors- The amendments will help entities to distinguish 
between accounting policies and accounting estimates, the definition of a change in accounting estimates has been replaced 
with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial 
statement that are subject to measurement uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require 
item in financial statement to be measured in a way that involves measurement uncertainty. The company does not expect this 
242 
Omaxe Limited
amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.
Note 57: 
(a)	 No funds have been advanced/loaned/invested (from borrowed fund or from share premium or  from any other sources/
kind of fund) by the company to any other person(s) or entity (ies), including  foreign entities(intermediaries), with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that  the intermediary shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest 
in other person or entities identified in any  manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) 
or (ii) provide any guarantee,  security or like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(b) 	 No funds have been received by the company from any person(s) or entity (ies), including foreign  entities (funding Parties), 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the  company shall (i) directly or indirectly lend 
or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner  whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate 
Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee,  security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Note 58: The Indian parliament has approved the Code of Social Security, 2020 which would impact the  contribution by the 
company towards provident fund and gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and  Employment has released draft rules for the Code 
on Social Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020. The  company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules 
are notified. The company will  give appropriate impact in its financial statement in the period in which, the code become 
effective and  the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
 Note 59: Previous year figures have been regrouped or reclassified to confirm current year classification.
The notes referred to above form an integral part of standalone financial statements.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 245 
To The Members of Omaxe Limited
Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial 
statements of Omaxe Limited (“the Holding Company”), 
its subsidiaries, limited liability partnership (collectively 
referred to as “the Group”) and its associates comprising of 
the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31st March 2023, the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other 
Comprehensive Income), the Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Equity and the Consolidated Statement of Cash 
Flow for the year then ended, and Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements including a summary of the significant 
accounting policies and other explanatory information 
(hereinafter referred to as “the consolidated financial 
statements”). 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated 
financial statements give the information required by the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required 
and give a true and fair view in conformity with Indian 
Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the 
Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended and other accounting principles 
generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of 
affairs of the Group as at 31st March 2023, of its consolidated 
loss and other comprehensive income, consolidated changes 
in equity and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) 
specified under section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s 
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial 
Statements section of our report. We are independent of the 
Group and of its associates in accordance with the Code of 
Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (ICAI) together with the ethical requirements that are 
relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements 
under the provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, 
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in 
accordance with these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of 
Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained 
along with the consideration of unaudited management 
certified financial statements referred to in “Other Matters” 
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the consolidated financial statements. 
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters (“KAM”) are those matters that, in our 
professional judgement, were of most significance in our 
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current 
period. These matters were addressed in the context of our 
audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, 
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters. In addition to our emphasis 
of matters, we have determined the matters described below 
to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
246 
Omaxe Limited
Description of key Audit Matters 
Sr. No. Key Audit Matters
How that matter was addressed in our audit report
1
Revenue recognition
The Group applies Ind AS 115 “Revenue from contracts 
with customers” for recognition of revenue from real 
estate projects, which is being recognized at a point 
in time upon the Company satisfying its performance 
obligations and the customer obtaining control of the 
underlying asset. 
Considering application of Ind AS 115   involves certain 
key judgment’s relating to identification of contracts 
with customer, identification of distinct performance 
obligations, determination of transaction price of the 
identified performance obligations, the appropriateness 
of the basis used to measure revenue recognised over a 
period. 
Additionally, Ind AS 115 contains disclosures which involve 
collation of information in respect of disaggregated 
revenue and periods over which the remaining 
performance obligations will be satisfied subsequent to 
the balance sheet date.
Refer Note 32 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Our audit procedure on revenue recognition from real 
estate projects included:
Selecting sample to identify contracts with customers, 
identifying separate performance obligation in the 
contracts, determination of transaction price and 
allocating the transaction price to separate performance 
obligation.
On selected samples, we tested that the revenue 
recognition is in accordance with accounting standards 
by
i)	
Reading, analyzing, and identifying the distinct 
performance obligations in real estate projects.
ii)	
Comparing distinct performance obligations with 
those identified and recorded.
iii)	 Reading 
terms 
of 
agreement 
to 
determine 
transaction price including variable consideration to 
verify transaction price used to recognize revenue.
iv)	 Performing 
analytical 
procedures 
to 
verify 
reasonableness of revenue accounted by the 
Company.
2
Pending Income Tax cases
The Group has various pending income tax cases 
involving tax demands which involve significant judgment 
to determine possible outcome of these cases.
 
Refer Notes 42, 44 and 45 to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements
We obtained details of all pending income tax matters 
involving tax demands on the Group and discussed with 
the Group’s in house tax team regarding sustainability 
of Group’s claim before various income tax/ appellate 
authorities on matters under litigation. The in-house 
tax team of the Group relied upon past legal and other 
rulings; submissions made by them during various 
hearings held; which was taken in consideration by us to 
evaluate management position on these tax demands.
3
Liability 
for 
Non-performance 
of 
real 
estate 
agreements/ civil law suits against the Group
The Group may be liable to pay damages/ interest 
for specific non- performance of certain real estate 
agreements, civil cases preferred against the Group 
for specific performance of the land agreement, the 
liability on account of these, if any has been disclosed 
as contingent liability. However, the amount is not 
quantifiable.
 
Refer Note 42 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
We obtained details/ list of pending civil cases and 
reviewed on sample basis real estate agreements, to 
ascertain damages on account of non-performance of 
those agreements and discussed with the legal team of 
the Group to evaluate management position. We have 
been represented that owing to the nature of Contingency, 
the amount is not quantifiable.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 247 
Sr. No. Key Audit Matters
How that matter was addressed in our audit report
4
Inventories
The Group’s inventories comprise mainly of projects 
under construction/development (projects-in-progress) 
completed real estate projects and land.
The inventories are carried at lower of cost and net 
realizable value (NRV). NRV of completed property is 
assessed by reference to market price existing at the 
reporting date and based on comparable transactions 
made by the Group and/or identified by the Group for 
properties in same geographical area. NRV of properties 
under construction is assessed with reference to market 
value of completed property as at the reporting date less 
estimated cost to complete.
The carrying value of inventories is a significant part 
of the total assets of the Group and involves significant 
estimates and judgments in assessment of NRV. 
Accordingly, it has been considered as key audit matter.
 Our audit procedures to assess the net realizable value 
(NRV) of the inventories include the following:
We had discussions with Management to understand 
Management’s process and methodology to estimate 
NRV, including key assumptions used and we also 
verified project wise un-sold area and recent sale prices 
and estimated cost of construction to complete projects.
5
Recognition and measurement of deferred tax assets
Under Ind AS, the Group is required to reassess 
recognition of deferred tax asset at each reporting date. 
The Group has deferred tax assets in respect of brought 
forward losses and other temporary differences, as set 
out in Note no 7 and 40 to the consolidated financial 
statements.
The Group's deferred tax assets in respect of brought 
forward business losses are based on the projected 
profitability. This is determined on the basis of significant 
management judgement and estimation given that is 
based on assumptions such as the likely timing and level 
of future taxable profits which are affected by expected 
future market and economic conditions. 
We have identified recognition of deferred tax assets as 
key audit matter because of the related complexity and 
subjectivity of the assessment process.
Our Audit procedures include:
i)	
Obtained an understanding of the process and tested 
the control over recording of deferred tax and review 
of deferred tax at each reporting date
ii)	
Evaluated management assumptions, used to 
determine the probability that deferred tax assets 
recognised in the balance sheet will be recovered 
through taxable income in future years, by handing 
over of major real estate projects.
iii) 	 Tested the computations of amount and tax rate used 
for recognition of deferred tax assets.
iv)  We have also focused on the adequacy of company’s 
disclosure on deferred tax.
Other information 
The Holding Company’s Management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the preparation of the other information. 
The 
other 
information 
comprises 
the 
information 
included in the Management Discussion and Analysis, 
Board’s Report including Annexures to Board’s Report, 
Business Responsibility Report, Corporate Governance 
and Shareholder’s Information, but does not include the 
consolidated financial statements and our auditor’s report 
thereon. The other information is expected to be made 
available to us after the date of the audit report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does 
not cover the other information and we do not express any 
form of assurance conclusion thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements, our responsibility is to read the other information 
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information 
is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial 
statements, or our knowledge obtained during the course of 
our audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that 
there is a material misstatement of this other information, 
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report 
in this regard.
248 
Omaxe Limited
Management’s 
Responsibilities 
for 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial Statements 
The Holding Company’s management and Board of Directors 
are responsible for the preparation and presentation of 
these consolidated financial statements in terms of the 
requirements of the Act that give a true and fair view of 
the consolidated financial position, consolidated financial 
performance 
including 
other 
comprehensive 
income, 
consolidated cash flows and consolidated statement of 
changes in equity of the Group and of its associates in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted 
in India, including the Accounting Standards specified under 
Section 133 of the Act, read with rule 3 of the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 and Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) amendment Rules, 2016. The 
respective Board of Directors of the Companies included 
in the Group and of its associates are responsible for 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets 
of the Group and of its associates and for preventing and 
detecting frauds and other irregularities; the selection 
and application of appropriate accounting policies; making 
judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; 
and the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate 
internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for 
ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the 
financial statements that give a true and fair view and are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or 
error, which have been used for the purpose of preparation of 
the consolidated financial statements by the Directors of the 
Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the 
respective Management and Board of Directors of the entities 
included in the Group and of its associates are responsible 
for assessing the ability of each entity to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting 
unless management either intends to liquidate the entity or 
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do 
so. 
The respective Board of Directors of the entities included 
in the Group and of its associates are responsible for 
overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group and 
of its associates.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated 
Financial statements 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about 
whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud 
or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our 
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance 
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when 
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated 
financial statements. 
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise 
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism 
throughout the audit. We also: 
• 
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
of the consolidated financial statements, whether due 
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures 
responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, 
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or 
the override of internal control. 
• 
Obtain an understanding of internal financial controls 
relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures 
that are appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 
143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing 
our opinion on whether the Holding Company and 
subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated 
in India has adequate internal financial controls system 
in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. 
• 
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
and related disclosures made by management. 
• 
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use 
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 249 
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material 
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that 
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group 
and its associates to continue as a going concern. If 
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are 
required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to 
the related disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to 
modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the 
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s 
report. However, future events or conditions may cause 
the Group and its associates to cease to continue as a 
going concern. 
• 
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure, and content 
of the consolidated financial statements, including the 
disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial 
statements represent the underlying transactions and 
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
• 
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding 
the financial information of the entities or business 
activities within the Group and of its associates of which 
we are the independent auditors and whose financial 
information we have audited, to express an opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements. We are responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
audit of the financial statements of such entities included 
in the consolidated financial statements of which we are 
the independent auditor. We remain solely responsible 
for our audit opinion.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the 
consolidated financial statements that, individually or in 
aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions of a 
reasonably knowledgeable user of the consolidated financial 
statements may be influenced. We consider quantitative 
materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of 
our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work; and 
(ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in 
the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us is sufficient 
and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
consolidated financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance of 
the Holding Company and such other entities included 
in the consolidated financial statements of which we are 
independent auditors regarding, among other matters, the 
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit 
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal 
control that we identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance with a 
statement that we have complied with relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate 
with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and 
where applicable, related safeguards. 
From the matters communicated with those charged with 
governance, we determine those matters that were of 
most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s 
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, 
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in 
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so 
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest 
benefits of such communication. 
Other Matters 
We did not audit the financial statements and other financial 
information in respect of 145 group companies included in 
the statement, whose financial statements include total 
assets of Rs. 68.99 crores as at 31st March 2023, total 
revenues (including other income) of Rs. 10.82 crores for the 
year ended 31st March 2023 and net cash flows amounting to 
Rs. 3.28 crores for the year ended on that date, as considered 
in the consolidated financial statements. These financial 
statements are unaudited and have been furnished to us 
by the management and our opinion on the consolidated 
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and 
disclosures included in respect of these group companies and 
our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the 
Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid group companies, 
are based solely on such unaudited financial statements as 
certified. In our opinion and according to the information and 
explanations given to us by the management, these financial 
statements are not material to the Group.
The Consolidated statement of Profit/ (Loss) for the year 
ended 31st March 2023 also includes share of Profit/ (Loss) 
of Rs (0.00) crore in respect of one associate company 
whose financial statements was also management certified 
and have been furnished to us by the management and our 
opinion is based on such financial statements of associate 
company as certified by the management.
250 
Omaxe Limited
We did not audit the financial statements of 2 subsidiary 
companies having Rs Nil Income/ Profit (Loss) which have 
not been consolidated, being non material in nature.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, and 
our report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 
below, is not modified in respect of above matter with respect 
to our reliance on financial statements as certified by the 
Management.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1.	
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our 
audit we report that:
a. 
We have sought and obtained all the information and 
explanations which to the best of our knowledge and 
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit 
of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements. 
b.	
In our opinion, proper books of account as required 
by law relating to the preparation of the aforesaid 
consolidated financial statements have been kept 
by the Company so far as it appears from our 
examination of those books.
c.	
The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated 
statement of profit and loss (including other 
comprehensive income), the consolidated statement 
of changes in equity and the consolidated statement 
of cash flow dealt with by this report are in agreement 
with the relevant books of account maintained for the 
purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements.
d.	
In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements comply with the Indian Accounting 
Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act.
e.	
On the basis of the written representations received 
from the directors of the Holding company and its 
subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in 
India as on 31st March, 2023 and taken on record 
by the Board of Directors of respective companies, 
none of the directors of the holding company and its 
subsidiaries which are companies incorporated in 
India is disqualified as on 31st March 2023 from being 
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of 
the Act. 
f. 
With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls with reference to the financial statements of 
the Holding Company and its subsidiaries companies 
which are companies incorporated in India and the 
operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our 
separate report in “Annexure-I”. 
g. 
With respect to the other matters to be included 
in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with the 
requirements of section 197(16) of the Act: 
	
In our opinion and to the best of our information 
and according to the explanations given to us, the 
remuneration paid to all the other directors is 
within the limits approved, however remuneration 
paid to the Chairman and Whole Time Director in 
view of losses is to be ratified or approved by the 
shareholders. 
h. 
With respect to the other matters to be included in 
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of 
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in 
our opinion and to the best of our information and 
according to the explanations given to us: 
i.	
The consolidated financial statements disclose 
the impact of pending litigations as at 31st 
March 2023 on the consolidated financial 
position of the Group.
ii.	
Provisions have been made in the consolidated 
financial statements, as required under the 
applicable law or accounting standards, for 
material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-
term contracts including derivative contracts. 
iii.	 There are no amounts required to be transferred 
to the Investor Education and Protection Fund 
by the Holding Company and its subsidiary 
companies which are companies incorporated 
in India.
iv.	 (a) 	 The respective Managements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries, limited 
liability partnership and its associates 
whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented 
to us that, to the best of its knowledge 
and belief, as disclosed in Note 60(a) of 
the consolidated financial statements, no 
funds have been advanced or loaned or 
invested (either from borrowed funds or 
share premium or any other sources or 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 251 
kind of funds) by the Holding Company or 
any of such subsidiaries, limited liability 
partnership and associates to or in any 
other person(s) or entity(ies), including 
foreign entities (“Intermediaries”), with 
the understanding, whether recorded in 
writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary 
shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified 
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf 
of the Holding Company or any of such 
subsidiaries, limited liability partnership 
and associates (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or 
provide any guarantee, security or the like 
on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 (b)	 The respective Managements of the Holding 
Company and its subsidiaries, limited 
liability partnership and its associates 
whose financial statements have been 
audited under the Act have represented to 
us that, to the best of its knowledge and 
belief, , as disclosed in Note 60(b) of the 
consolidated financial statements, no funds 
have been received by the Holding Company 
or any of such subsidiaries, limited liability 
partnership and associates from any 
person(s) or entity(ies), including foreign 
entities (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing 
or otherwise, that the Holding Company or 
any of such subsidiaries, limited liability 
partnership and associates shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding 
Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide 
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf 
of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
(c) 	 Based on the audit procedures that 
have 
been 
considered 
reasonable 
and appropriate in the circumstances 
performed by us, nothing has come to our 
notice that has caused us to believe that the 
representations under sub-clause (a) and 
(b) contain any material misstatement.
v.	
Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) 
Rules, 2014 for maintaining the Books of Accounts 
using accounting software which has feature of 
recording Audit Trail (Edit Log) is applicable to 
the Holding Company, its subsidiaries, its limited 
liability partnerships and its associates with effect 
from 1st April 2023 and accordingly reporting under 
Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rule 
2014 is not applicable for the financial year ended 
31st March 2023.
2. 
With respect to the matters specified in paragraphs 3(xxi) 
and 4 of the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 
(the “Order”/ “CARO”) issued by the Central Government 
in terms of Section 143(11) of the Act, to be included 
in the Auditor’s report, according to the information 
and explanations given to us, and based on the CARO 
reports issued by us for the companies included in the 
consolidated financial statements of the Company, to 
which reporting under CARO is applicable, we report 
that there are no qualifications or adverse remarks in 
these CARO reports, other than one associate company 
and 145 group companies controlled by the company 
which have not been audited and consolidated based on 
Management certified financial statements.
For B S D & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 000312S
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma
Partner
Membership number: 087919
UDIN: 23087919BGWNKZ5589
 
Place: New Delhi 
Date: 26th May 2023 
252 
Omaxe Limited
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of Omaxe Limited (“the Holding Company”) as 
of and for the year ended 31st March 2023, we have audited 
the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the 
Holding Company and its subsidiary companies which are 
incorporated in India as of that date.
Management’s 
Responsibility 
for 
Internal 
Financial 
Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Holding company and 
its subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated 
in India, are responsible for establishing and maintaining 
internal financial controls based on the internal controls 
over financial reporting criteria established by the company 
considering the essential components of internal controls 
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial 
Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) . These responsibilities 
include the design, implementation and maintenance of 
adequate internal financial controls that were operating 
effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct 
of its business, including adherence to the respective 
company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the 
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy 
and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely 
preparation of reliable financial information, as required 
under the Act.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s 
internal financial controls over financial reporting based on 
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over 
Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) issued by the ICAI 
and the Standards on Auditing, issued by ICAI and deemed to 
be prescribed under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent 
applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those 
Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply 
with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit 
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate 
internal financial controls over financial reporting was 
established and maintained and if such controls operated 
effectively in all material respects. 
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit 
evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial 
controls system over financial reporting and their operating 
effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over 
financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of 
internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing 
the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected 
depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment 
of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated 
financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit 
opinion on the internal financial controls systems over 
financial reporting of the company and its subsidiary 
companies which are companies incorporated in India and its 
associates. 
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial 
Reporting
A company’s internal financial controls over financial 
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A 
company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting 
includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the 
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures 
Annexure I- Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under the heading “Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements” section 
of our report of even date 
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the 
Act”)
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 253 
of the company are being made only in accordance with 
authorizations of management and directors of the company; 
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention 
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material 
effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over 
Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial 
controls over financial reporting, including the possibility 
of collusion or improper management override of controls, 
material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and 
not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the 
internal financial controls over financial reporting to future 
periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial 
control over financial reporting may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of 
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, to the best of our information and according 
to the explanations given to us, the Group has, in all material 
respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over 
financial reporting and such internal financial controls over 
financial reporting were operating effectively as at 31st March 
2023, based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Group consisting the essential 
components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial 
Reporting issued by the ICAI.
Other Matters
Our report under section 143(3)(i) of the Act on the adequacy 
and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls 
is with reference to consolidated financial statements of the 
Holding Company, its subsidiaries and associate companies 
audited by us and for 145 group companies and one associate 
company is based on the financial statements as certified by 
the Management. 
For B S D & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Firm’s Registration No.: 000312S
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma
Partner
Membership number: 087919
UDIN: 23087919BGWNKZ5589
Place: New Delhi 
Date:26th May 2023 
254 
Omaxe Limited
Annexure-II to the Independent Auditors’ Report – 31st March 2023 on the Consolidated Financial Statements
A. 	 Audited Subsidiaries/Associates Companies
S.NO.
NAME OF THE COMPANY
TYPE
1
AASHNA REALCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
2
ANJANIPUTRA BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
3
ARADHYA REAL ESTATE PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
4
ARMAN BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
5
ATULAH CONTRACTORS AND CONSTRUCTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
6
AYUSH LANDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
7
BLACKBULL RETAILS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
8
CHAPAL BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
9
COLORS REAL ESTATE PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
10
DHANU REAL ESTATE PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
11
EKANSH BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
12
GOLDEN GLADES BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
13
GREEN PLANET COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
14
HAMARA GHAR CONSTRUCTIONS AND DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
15
JAGDAMBA CONTRACTORS AND BUILDERS LIMITED
Subsidiary
16
JKB CONSTRUCTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
17
JRS PROJECTS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
18
KAMINI BUILDERS AND PROMOTERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
19
KASHISH BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
20
KAVYA BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
21
LANDLORD DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
22
LINK INFRASTRUCTURE AND DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
23
LUDHIANA WHOLESALE MARKET PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
24
MEHBOOB BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
25
MEHTAB INFRATECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
26
MONARCH VILLAS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
27
MR REAL ESTATE PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
28
NATIONAL AFFORDABLE HOUSING LIMITED
Subsidiary
29
NAVRATAN TECHBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
30
NEXTEN (I) GROWTH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
31
NEXTEN INFRA GROWTH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
32
NEXTEN INFRA PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
33
NEXTEN REAL GROWTH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
34
NEXTEN SUPER GROWTH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
35
OASIS TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
36
OMAXE BUILDHOME LIMITED
Subsidiary
37
OMAXE BUILDWELL LIMITED
Subsidiary
38
OMAXE ENTERTAINMENT LIMITED
Subsidiary
39
OMAXE FOREST SPA AND HILLS DEVELOPERS LIMITED
Subsidiary
40
OMAXE GARV BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
41
OMAXE HERITAGE PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
42
OMAXE HITECH INFRASTRUCTURE COMPANY PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
43
OMAXE HOUSING AND DEVELOPERS LIMITED
Subsidiary
44
OMAXE HOUSING AND INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED
Subsidiary
45
OMAXE INDORE DEVELOPERS LIMITED
Subsidiary
46
OMAXE INFOTECH CITY DEVELOPERS LIMITED
Subsidiary
47
OMAXE INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED
Subsidiary
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 255 
S.NO.
NAME OF THE COMPANY
TYPE
48
OMAXE INTERNATIONAL BAZAAR PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
49
OMAXE NEW AMRITSAR DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
50
OMAXE NEW CHANDIGARH DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
51
OMAXE NEW FARIDABAD DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
52
OMAXE NEXT PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
53
OMAXE PANCHAM REALCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
54
OMAXE POWER PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
55
OMTECH INFRASTRUCTURE AND CONSTRUCTION LIMITED
Subsidiary
56
PAM DEVELOPERS (INDIA) PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
57
PANCHI DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
58
PRIMORDIAL BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
59
SARTHAK LANDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
60
SARVA BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
61
SHAMBA DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
62
SHIKHAR LANDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
63
SILVER PEAK TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
64
WORLDSTREET SPORTS CENTER LIMITED
Subsidiary
65
ZODIAC HOUSING AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
66
HARTAL BUILDERS AND DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
67
OMAXE WORLD STREET PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
68
PP DEVCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
69
RIVAJ INFRATECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
70
SRI BALAJI GREEN HEIGHTS PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
71
GIANT DRAGON MART PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
72
PARKASH OMAXE AMUSEMENT PARK PRIVATE LIMITED
Subsidiary
73
OMAXE BE TOGETHER PROJECTS DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Associate
74
CAPITAL REDEVELOPMENT PRIVATE LIMITED
Associate
75
FBD REAL GROW PRIVATE LIMITED
Associate
76
DREAMZE NEW FARIDABAD DEVELOPERS LLP
LLP
77
SHINE GROW NEW FARIDABAD LLP
LLP
78
ESTATELANCE DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
79
S N REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
80
OASIS SUNCITY REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
81
RPS SUNCITY PROMOTERS & DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
82
RELIABLE MANPOWER SOLUTIONS LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
83
SATVIK HITECH BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
84
ASHOK INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
85
GLACIER AGRO FOOD PRODUCTS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
86
TEJPAL INFRA DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
87
AADHIRA DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
88
ASHRAY INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
89
DAVESH TECHNOBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
90
DINKAR REALCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
91
HEMANG BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
92
HIRESH BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
93
SANVIM DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
94
ESTATELANCE REAL ESTATE PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
95
BHANU INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
96
AARZOO TECHNOBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
256 
Omaxe Limited
S.NO.
NAME OF THE COMPANY
TYPE
97
ABHEEK BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
98
RADIANCE HOUSING AND PROPERTIES PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
99
CASPIAN REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
100
DAMAN BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
101
DAMODAR INFRATECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
102
EKAPAD DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
103
MANIT DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
104
NRI CITY DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
105
RUPESH INFRATECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
106
SHUBH BHUMI DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
107
AVIRAL COLONIZERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
108
SATKAR COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
109
UTKRISHT REAL ESTATE & ASSOCIATES PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
110
OMAXE INDIA TRADE CENTRE PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
111
ABHAS REALCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
112
ADESH REALCON PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
113
ANVESHAN BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
114
NAVADIP DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Step-subsidiary
115
SALVATORE INFRA BUILDTECH LTD.
Step-subsidiary
B. Group Companies Controlled by Omaxe Limited 
S.NO.
NAME OF THE COMPANY
1
AANCHAL INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
2
ABHAY TECHNO BUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
3
ABHIMAN BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
4
ABSOLUTE INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LIMITED
5
ADIL DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
6
ADVAITA PROPERTIES PRIVATE LIMITED
7
ADVAY PROPERTIES PRIVATE LIMITED
8
AGASTHYA PROPERTIES PRIVATE LIMITED
9
ALPESH BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
10
AMBER INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
11
AMIT JAIN BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
12
AMOD BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
13
ANANDDEEP REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
14
ANANT REALCON PRIVATE LIMITED
15
ANEESH BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
16
APOORVA INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
17
ARHANT INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
18
ARIC INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
19
ARJIT BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
20
ART BALCONY PRIVATE LIMITED
21
AVINDRA ESTATE DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
22
AVVAL BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
23
BALESH TECHNOBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
24
BALI BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 257 
S.NO.
NAME OF THE COMPANY
25
BANDHU BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
26
BEAUTIFUL LANDBASE PRIVATE LIMITED
27
BHARGAV BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
28
BHAVESH BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
29
CHAITANYA REALCON PRIVATE LIMITED
30
CHETAN INFRABUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
31
CHIRAG BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
32
CRESS PROPBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
33
DAKSH TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
34
DEEJIT DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
35
DEEPAALAY REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
36
DEEPAL TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
37
DEEPSING REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
38
DESIRE HOUSING AND CONSTRUCTION PRIVATE LIMITED
39
DEVGAR ESTATE DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
40
DISTINCTIVE INFRASTRUCTURE AND CONSTRUCTION PRIVATE LIMITED
41
DREAM TECHNOBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
42
DREAM TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED
43
DVM REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
44
EXCELLENT APARTMENTS PRIVATE LIMITED
45
FAST TRACK BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
46
GARG AND GOEL ESTATE DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
47
GARG REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
48
GARVISH REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
49
GAURANG BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
50
GEET BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
51
GIRISH BUILDWELL PRIVATE LIMITED
52
GOEL ISHA COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
53
GREEN EARTH PROMOTERS PRIVATE LIMITED
54
GURMEET BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
55
HINA TECHNOBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
56
INDRASAN DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
57
ISTUTI REALCON PRIVATE LIMITED
58
J.S.M. ENTERPRISES PRIVATE LIMITED
59
JAGAT BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
60
JAIDEV COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
61
JISHNU BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
62
JITENJAY REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
63
JIVISH COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
64
KALP BUILDTECH PRIVATE LIMITED
65
KANAK BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
66
KARTIK BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
67
KBM CONSTRUCTIONS PRIVATE LIMITED
68
KISHORDEEP REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
258 
Omaxe Limited
S.NO.
NAME OF THE COMPANY
69
KRISHAN KRIPA BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
70
LALDEEP REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
71
LAVANYA BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
72
LIFESTYLE TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
73
LOHITH DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
74
LUXURY TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
75
MANGAL BHUMI PROPERTIES PRIVATE LIMITED
76
MANGLA VILLAS PRIVATE LIMITED
77
MANKISH COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
78
MANWAL COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
79
MEGHMALA BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
80
MIHIR BUILDWELL PRIVATE LIMITED
81
MILESTONE TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
82
MOTTO DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
83
NAKUL TECHNOBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
84
NAPTUNE TECHNOBUILD PROJECTS PRIVATE LIMITED
85
NATRAJ COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
86
NAVEENRAJ REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
87
NEEGAR DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
88
NEW HORIZONS TOWNSHIP DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
89
OMAXE AFFORDABLE HOMES PRIVATE LIMITED
90
OMAXE HOTELS LIMITED
91
OMAXE REALTORS LIMITED
92
P N BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
93
PARJIT REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
94
PRABAL DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
95
PRAVEEN BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
96
PRAVEEN MEHTA BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
97
PSJ DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
98
PURU BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
99
RAMNIYA ESTATE DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
100
RAVEENDEEP COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
101
ROCKY VALLEY RESORTS PRIVATE LIMITED
102
SANDEEP LANDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
103
SANDEEP TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
104
SANGUPT DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
105
SANJIT REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
106
SANKALP REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
107
SANYA REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
108
SAVIM REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
109
SENTINENT PROPERTIES PRIVATE LIMITED
110
SHALIN BUILDWELL PRIVATE LIMITED
111
SHANTINIWAS DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
112
SHARDUL BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 259 
S.NO.
NAME OF THE COMPANY
113
SHASHANK BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
114
SHIVSHAKTI REALBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
115
SHREYAS BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
116
SINGDEEP ESTATE DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
117
SMART BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
118
SNEHAL BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
119
SNJ BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
120
SOURCE DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
121
SPIKE DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
122
STAREX PROJECTS PRIVATE LIMITED
123
STARSHINE REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
124
STEPPING STONE BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
125
STRONGHOLD PROPERTIES PRIVATE LIMITED
126
SUBODH BUILDWELL PRIVATE LIMITED
127
SUMEDHA BUILDERS PRIVATE LIMITED
128
SUNRISE TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
129
SUNVIEW TOWNSHIP PRIVATE LIMITED
130
SWAPAN SUNDER TOWNSHIP DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
131
SWAPNIL BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
132
SWARG SUKH BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
133
TARU BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
134
TRUE DREAMS DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
135
TRUE ESTATE BUILD DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
136
TRUE GEM TECH DEVELOPERS PRIVATE LIMITED
137
TUSHAR LANDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
138
UDAL PROPERTIES PRIVATE LIMITED
139
UMANG BUILDCON PRIVATE LIMITED
140
VAIBHAV TECHNOBUILD PRIVATE LIMITED
141
VAMAN BUILDHOME PRIVATE LIMITED
142
VEENISH REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
143
VGSG REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
144
VIMSAN REALTORS PRIVATE LIMITED
145
VINEERA COLONISERS PRIVATE LIMITED
260 
Omaxe Limited
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Note 
No.
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
a)
Property, Plant and Equipment
1
485,83
489.56
b)
Rights of use assets 
2
46.70
79.70
c)
Other Intangible Assets
3
0.55
0.11
d)
Goodwill on consolidation
4
 49.05
 57.99
e)
Financial Assets
i) Investments
5
 14.17 
 13.24 
ii) Other Financial Assets
6
103.91
64.92
f)
Deferred Tax Assets (net)
7
425.09
317.24
g)
Non Current Tax Assets (net)
8
124.21
146.84
h)
Other Non-Current Assets
9
13.19
13.73
1,262.70
1,183.33
Current Assets
a)
Inventories
10
10,429.81
9,267.23
b)
Financial Assets
i) Trade Receivables
11
384.92
384.38
ii) Cash & Cash Equivalents
12
191.74
126.55
iii) Other Bank Balances
13
301.43
174.59
iv) Loans
14
-
18.76
v) Other Financial Assets
15
246.30
245.69
c)
Other Current Assets
16
743.34
517.59
12,297.54
10,734.79
TOTAL ASSETS
13,560.24
11,918.12
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
a)
Equity Share Capital
17
 182.90 
 182.90 
b)
Other Equity
18
715.31
1,062.06
Non Controlling Interest
11.80
14.95
Liabilities
Non-Current Liabilities
a)
Financial Liabilities
 i) Borrowings
19
762.28
516.74
ii) Lease liabilities
20
15.40
87.43
iii) Trade Payables
21
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
-
-
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
221.50
171.69
iv) Other Financial Liabilities
22
154.20
144.04
b)
Other Non Current Liabilities
23
4.36
4.24
c)
Provisions
24
19.46
18.11
1,177.20
942.25
Current liabilities
a)
Financial Liabilities
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 261 
Particulars
 Note 
No.
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
i) Borrowings
25
260.06
491.21
ii) Lease liabilities
26
69.15
33.04
iii) Trade Payables
27
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
36.08
20.72
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and 
small enterprises
1,157.60
982.44
iv) Other Financial Liabilities
28
1,077.08
1,035.48
b)
Other Current Liabilities
29
8,869.18
7,146.86
c)
Provisions
30
3.00
3.01
d)
Current tax liabilities (net)
31
0.88
3.20
11,473.03
9,715.96
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
13,560.24
11,918.12
Significant accounting policies	
A 
Notes on financial statements	
1-62
The notes referred to above form an integral part of consolidated financial statements.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
262 
Omaxe Limited
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT & LOSS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2022
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Note 
No.
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Revenue from Operations
32
773.33
617.80
Other Income
33
24.68
20.14
TOTAL INCOME
798.01
637.94
EXPENSES 
Cost of Land, Material Consumed, Construction & Other Related Project Cost
34
1,793.12
1,133.57
Changes in Inventories of Finished Stock & Projects in Progress
35
 (926.83)
 (575.99)
Employee Benefits Expense
36
39.36
40.34
Finance Cost
37
112.80
121.09
Depreciation and Amortization Expense
38
65.37
46.58
Other Expenses
39
170.96
66.73
TOTAL EXPENSES
1,254.78
832.32
Profit/(Loss) Before Tax 
 
(456.77)
(194.38)
Tax Expense
40
Current tax
1.16
3.79
Tax adjustments for earlier years
1.42
0.17
Deferred tax charge / (credit)
(108.27)
(36.69)
Total Tax Expense
(105.69)
(32.73)
Profit/(Loss) before share of Profit/(Loss) in associates
(351.08)
(161.65)
Share of profit/(loss) in associates
 
(0.00)
0.04
Profit/(Loss) For The Year (A) 
(351.08)
(161.61)
Other Comprehensive Income
Items that will not be reclassified to Statement of Profit and Loss
Remeasurement of the Net Defined Benefit Plans 
 
 0.88
 (1.42)
Tax On Remeasurement of The Net Defined Benefit Plans – Actuarial Gain or Loss
(0.22)
0.36
Equity Instruments at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income
0.95 
0.79 
Tax on Above Items
(0.22)
(0.11)
Total Other Comprehensive Income/(loss) (B) 
1.39
(0.38)
Total Comprehensive Income for the year (comprising of profit/(loss) for the 
year and other comprehensive income) (A+B)
(349.69)
(161.99)
 Net Profit/(Loss) attributable to : 
 a) Owners of the Company 
(347.91)
(159.53)
 b) Non Controlling Interest 
(3.17)
(2.08)
 Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) attributable to : 
 a) Owners of the Company 
 1.28
 (0.24)
 b) Non Controlling Interest 
0.11
(0.14)
 Total Comprehensive Income/(Loss) attributable to : 
 a) Owners of the Company 
(346.63)
(159.77)
 b) Non Controlling Interest 
(3.06)
(2.22)
 Earning Per Equity Share (face value of Rs. 10 per share) 
41
 
 Basic (In Rupees) 
(19.02)
(8.72)
 Diluted (In Rupees)
(19.02)
(8.72)
Significant accounting policies	
A 
Notes on financial statements	
1-62
The notes referred to above form an integral part of consolidated financial statements.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 263 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 March, 2023
A.	
Equity Share Capital
Particulars
 Number of shares 
 Rupees in Crore 
Balance as at 1 April 2021
 182,900,540 
182.90 
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors
 -
-
Restated balance as at April 1, 2021
 182,900,540 
182.90 
Changes in equity share capital during 2021-22
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2022
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
Balance as at 1 April 2022
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
Changes in equity share capital due to prior period errors
 -
-
Restated balance as at April 1, 2022
 182,900,540 
182.90 
Changes in equity share capital during 2022-23
 - 
 - 
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 182,900,540 
 182.90 
B. 	 Other Equity
 (Rupees in Crore)
Description
 Attributable to owners of Omaxe Limited 
Non-Con-
trolling 
Interest
(B)
Total Equity
(A+B)
Equity Com-
ponent of 
Compound 
Financial 
Instruments
 Reserves and Surplus 
 Other Comprehensive Income 
 Securities 
Premium
Capital 
Reserve
 Retained 
Earnings/ 
(Deficit) 
 General 
Reserve 
 Remeas-
urement 
of Defined 
Benefit Ob-
ligation 
 Equity In-
struments 
at Fair Val-
ue through 
Other Com-
prehensive 
Income 
 Total
(A) 
Balance as at 1 April 2021
225.22
499.61
0.20
100.35
395.63
(0.14)
0.96
1,221.83
17.16
1,238.99
Profit/(Loss) for the year
-
-
-
(159.53)
-
-
-
(159.53)
(2.08)
(161.61)
Other Comprehensive Income
-
-
-
-
-
(0.92)
0.68
(0.24)
(0.14)
(0.38)
Other adjustment
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0.01
0.01
Balance as at 31 March 2022
225.22
499.61
0.20
(59.18)
395.63
(1.06)
1.64
1,062.06
14.95
1,077.01
Balance as at 1 April 2022
225.22
499.61
0.20
(59.18)
395.63
(1.06)
1.64
1,062.06
14.95
1,077.01
Profit/(Loss) for the year
-
-
-
(347.91)
-
-
-
(347.91)
(3.17)
(351.08)
Other Comprehensive Income
-
-
-
-
-
0.55
0.73
1.28
0.11
1.39
Transfer with owners in their 
capacity as owners:
Transfer from deferred tax 
liability
-
-
0.04
-
-
-
-
0.04
-
0.04
Transfer to other income 
on account of capital profit 
pursuant to Sec 45(2) of 
Income Tax Act, 1961
-
-
(0.16)
-
-
-
-
(0.16)
-
(0.16)
Other adjustment
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(0.09)
(0.09)
Balance as at 31 March 2023
225.22
499.61
0.08
(407.09)
395.63
(0.51)
2.37
715.31
11.80
727.11
The notes referred to above form an integral part of consolidated financial statements.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
264 
Omaxe Limited
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 
for the year ended 31 March, 2023
(Rupees in Crore)
 
 
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
 A. 
 Cash flow from operating activities 
 
 
 Profit for the year before tax 
(456.77)
(194.38)
 
 Adjustments for : 
 
 Depreciation and amortization expense 
68.13
49.74
 
 Interest income 
(14.64)
(11.89)
 
 Interest and finance charges 
438.94
369.05
 Interest on lease liability
7.57
8.06
 
 Unrealised profit 
0.22
0.88
 Transfer from capital reserve
(0.16)
-
 
 Bad debts 
10.00
0.79
 
 Provision for doubtful trade receivable, deposits and advances 
27.35
4.40
 
 Liabilities no longer required written back 
(5.50)
(1.78)
 
 Loss/(profit) on sale/ discarded of fixed assets 
(0.90)
(3.75)
 Decrease in value of current investment
12.00
-
Maintenance Income
(0.33)
-
 
 Operating profit before working capital changes 
85.91
 221.12
 
 Adjustments for working capital 
 
 Inventories 
(1,162.58)
(674.56)
 
 Trade receivable 
(10.54)
2.65
 
 Loans and advances 
(7.80)
8.59
 
 Other financial assets 
(21.92)
(3.19)
 
 Other non-financial assets 
(225.34)
(158.46)
 
 Trade payable, other liabilities and provisions
1,793.53
1,397.75
 
 
365.35
572.78
 
 Net cash flow from operating activities 
451.26
793.90
 
 Direct tax paid / (refund) (net) 
(17.74)
10.81
 
 Net cash generated from Operating activities (A) 
469.00
783.09
 B 
 Cash flow from investing activities 
 
Purchase of fixed assets (including Capital work in progress) 
(17.38)
(17.15)
 
Sale of fixed assets 
9.00
15.56
Purchase of Investment
0.01
0.00
 
Movement in other bank balances 
(162.51)
(30.02)
Realisation of receivable against sale of investments
-
0.10
Loan (given to)/ repaid by others (net)
18.76
(1.27)
 
Interest received 
13.22
10.76
Goodwill on consolidation (net)
(3.06)
-
 
Minority interest 
0.02
(0.13)
 
 Net cash generated from /(used in) investing activities (B) 
(141.94)
(22.15)
 C 
 Cash flow from financing activities 
 
 Unpaid dividend deposited 
(0.03)
(0.03)
 
 Interest and finance charges paid 
(197.87)
(308.01)
 Repayment of lease liability including interest
(66.04)
(21.73)
 
 Repayment of borrowings 
(548.21)
(481.76)
 
 Proceeds from borrowings 
550.28
71.47
 
 Net cash (used in)/generated from Financing activities (C) 
(261.87)
(740.06)
 
 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C) 
65.19
20.88
 
 Opening balance of cash and cash equivalents 
126.55
105.67
 
 Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents 
191.74
126.55
 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 265 
(Rupees in Crore)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
COMPONENTS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AS AT
Cash on hand (including stamp in hand)
8.95 
4.94 
Balance with banks
173.37 
84.62 
Cheques on hand
 4.42 
 36.92 
Fixed deposits with banks, having original maturity of three months or less
 5.00 
 0.07 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 191.74 
 126.55 
RECONCILIATION STATEMENT OF CASH AND BANK BALANCE
 (Rupees in Crore)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year as per above
191.74
126.55
Add: Balance with bank in dividend / unclaimed dividend accounts / unpaid 
fraction share payable
0.11
0.14
Fixed deposits with banks, having remaining maturity for less than twelve months
87.18
-
Add: Fixed deposits with banks (lien marked)
206.71
172.82
Add: Fixed deposit against borrowings
7.43
1.63
Cash and bank balance as per balance sheet (refer note 12 & 13)
493.17
301.14
DISCLOSURE AS REQUIRED BY INDAS 7
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
 (Rupees in Crore)
31 March 2023
Opening 
Balance
Cash flows
Non Cash 
Changes
Closing balance
Current secured borrowings
11.09
(10.27)
0.00
0.82
Non-Current secured borrowings
828.99
79.48
(2.21)
906.26
Current unsecured borrowings
68.81
(53.31)
0.01
15.51
Non-Current unsecured borrowings
99.06
(13.83)
14.52
99.75
Total liabilities from financial activities
1,007.95
2.07
12.32
1,022.34
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
31 March 2022
Opening 
Balance
Cash flows
Non Cash 
changes
Closing balance
Current secured borrowings
68.36
(57.31)
0.04
11.09
Non-Current secured borrowings
1,132.18
(312.44)
9.25
828.99
Current unsecured borrowings
89.25
(20.42)
(0.02)
68.81
Non-Current unsecured borrowings
106.70
(20.12)
12.48
99.06
Total liabilities from financial activities
1,396.49
(410.29)
21.75
1,007.95
Significant accounting policies (refer note A)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements
Note: - Depreciation includes amount charged to cost of material consumed, construction & other related project cost.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
266 
Omaxe Limited
A 	 Significant Accounting Policies:
1 	
Corporate information
 	
Omaxe Limited (“ The Company”) and its subsidiaries 
(collectively referred to as “Group”) are mainly into 
the business of developing real estate properties for 
residential, commercial and retail purposes. The shares 
of the Company are listed on the National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited and the BSE Limited. The registered 
office of the Company is at Shop No. 19-B, First Floor, 
Omaxe Celebration Mall, Sohna Road, Gurgaon, 
Haryana-122001 and Corporate Office is situated at 7, 
LSC, Kalkaji, New Delhi-110019.
2 	
Significant Accounting Policies:
(i) 	
Basis of Preparation
 	
The financial statements of the Group have been 
prepared in accordance with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules 2015 (‘INDAS’) issued by 
Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’). 
	
 The financial statements for the year ended 31 March 
2023 were authorised and approved by the  Board of 
Directors on 26 May, 2023.
	
The consolidated financial statements have been 
prepared on a going concern basis in  accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in 
India. Further, the consolidated  financial statements 
have been prepared on historical cost basis except for 
certain financial  assets, financial liabilities, derivative 
financial instruments and share based payments which 
are measured at fair values as explained in relevant 
accounting policies. The consolidated  financial 
statements are presented in Rupees and all values are 
rounded to the nearest crore,  except  when otherwise 
indicated.
(ii) 	
Basis of Consolidation
	
 The consolidated financial statements relates to Omaxe 
Limited (‘the Company’) and its subsidiary   companies 
and associates. The consolidated financial statements 
have been prepared on the following   basis:
(a) 	
The financial statements of the Company and its 
subsidiaries are combined on a line by line basis 
by adding together like items of assets, liabilities, 
equity, incomes, expenses and cash flows, after 
fully eliminating intra-group balances and intra-
group transactions.
(b) 	
Profits or losses resulting from intra-group 
transactions that are recognised in assets, such 
as inventory and property, plant & equipment, are 
eliminated in full.
(c)  
Where the cost of the investment is higher/
lower than the share of equity in the subsidiary / 
associates at the time of acquisition, the resulting 
difference 
is 
disclosed 
as 
goodwill/capital 
reserve in the investment schedule. The said 
Goodwill is not amortised, however, it is tested 
for impairment at each Balance Sheet date and 
the impairment loss, if any, is provided for in the 
consolidated statement of profit and loss.
(d) 	
In case of foreign subsidiaries, revenue items are 
consolidated at the average rate prevailing during 
the year. All assets and liabilities are converted 
at rates prevailing at the end of the year. Any 
exchange difference arising on consolidation is 
recognised in the consolidated statement of profit 
and loss.
(e) 	
Offset (eliminate) the carrying amount of the 
parent’s investment in each subsidiary and the 
parent’s portion of equity of each subsidiary.
(f) 	
The difference between the proceeds from 
disposal of investment in subsidiaries and the 
carrying amount of its assets less liabilities 
as on the date of disposal is recognised in the 
Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss being 
the profit or loss on disposal of investment in 
subsidiary.
(g) 	
Non Controlling Interest’s share of profit / loss of 
consolidated subsidiaries for the year is identified 
and adjusted against the income of the group in 
order to arrive at the net income attributable to 
shareholders of the Company.
(h) 	
Non Controlling Interest’s share of net assets 
of consolidated subsidiaries is identified and 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 267 
presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet 
separate from liabilities and the equity of the 
Company’s shareholders.
(i) 	
Investment in Associates has been accounted 
under the equity method as per INDAS 28 - 
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
(j) 	
The Company accounts for its share of post-
acquisition changes in net assets of associates, 
after eliminating unrealised profits and losses 
resulting 
from 
transactions 
between 
the 
Company and its associates to the extent of its 
share, through its Consolidated Statement of 
Profit and Loss, to the extent such change is 
attributable to the associates’ Statement of Profit 
and Loss and through its reserves for the balance 
based on available information.
(iii) 	 Revenue Recognition
 	
The group follows IND AS 115 for revenue recognition. 
	
Revenue towards satisfaction of a performance 
obligation is measured at the amount of transaction 
price (net of variable consideration) allocated to that 
performance obligations. The transaction price of 
goods sold and services rendered is net of variable 
consideration on account of various discount and 
scheme as part of contract.
 	
Point of Time:
(a) 	
Real estate projects
	
The group derives revenue from execution of 
real estate projects. Revenue from real estate 
projects are recognised upon transfer of control 
of promised real estate property to customer at 
an amount that reflects the consideration which 
the group expects to receive in exchange for such 
booking and is based on following 6 steps : 
1. 	
Identification of contract with customers:-
	
The group accounts for contract with a 
customer only when all the following 
criteria are met:
- 	
Parties (i.e. the group and the customer) 
to the contract have approved the contract 
(in writing, orally or in accordance with 
business practices) and are committed to 
perform their respective obligations.
- 	
The group can identify each customer’s 
right regarding the goods or services to be 
transferred.
- 	
The group can identify the payment terms 
for the goods or services to be transferred.
- 	
The contract has commercial substance 
(i.e. risk, timing or amount of the group’s 
future cash flow is expected to change as a 
result of the contract) and
- 	
It is probable that the group will collect the 
consideration to which it will be entitled 
in exchange for the goods or services 
that will be transferred to the customer. 
Consideration may not be the same due to 
discount rate etc.
2.	
Identify 
the 
separate 
performance 
obligation in the contract:-
	
Performance obligation is a promise to 
transfer to a customer:
• 
Goods or services or a bundle of goods 
or services i.e. distinct or a series of 
goods or services that are substantially 
the same and are transferred in the 
same way.
• 
If a promise to transfer goods or 
services is not distinct from goods or 
services in a contract, then the goods 
or services are combined in a single 
performance obligation.
• 
The goods or services that is promised 
to a customer is distinct if both the 
following criteria are met:
- 	
The customer can benefit from the 
goods or services either on its own or 
together with resources that are readily 
available to the customer ( i.e. the 
268 
Omaxe Limited
goods or services are capable of being 
distinct) and
 - 	
The group promise to transfer the 
goods or services to the customer is 
separately identifiable from the other 
promises in the contract i.e the goods 
or services are distinct within the 
context of the contract.
 3 	
Satisfaction 
of 
the 
performance 
obligation:-
	
The group recognizes revenue when (or 
as) the group satisfies a performance 
obligation by  transferring a promised 
goods or services to the customer.
	
The real estate properties are transferred 
when (or as) the customer obtains control 
of the  property.
4	
Determination of transaction price:-
  	
The transaction price is the amount of 
consideration to which the group expects 
to be  entitled  in exchange for transferring 
promised goods or services to customer 
excluding GST. The  consideration promised 
in a contract with a customer may include 
fixed amount, variable amount  or both. In 
determining transaction price, the group 
assumes that goods or services will be 
transferred to the customer as promised in 
accordance with the existing contract and 
the contract  can’t be cancelled, renewed or 
modified.
5 	
Allocating the transaction price to the 
performance obligation:-
 	
The allocation of the total contract price to 
various performance obligation are done 
based  on their standalone selling prices, 
the stand alone selling price is the price at 
which the group  would sell promised goods 
or services separately to the customers.
6  	
Recognition of revenue when (or as) the 
group satisfies a performance obligation:
	
Performance obligation is satisfied at a 
point in time
 	
Performance obligation is satisfied over 
time if none of the criteria out of the below 
three not  met:
- 	
The customer simultaneously receives and 
consumes a benefit provided by the  group’s 
performance as the group performs. 
- 	
The 
group’s 
performance 
creates 
or 
enhances an asset that a customer controls 
as  asset is created or enhanced or 
-	
The group’s performance doesn’t create an 
asset within an alternative use to the  group 
and the company has an enforceable right 
to payment for performance completed to 
date. 
	
 The group disaggregate revenue from real 
estate projects on the basis of nature of 
revenue.
	
Over a period of time:
	
Performance obligation is satisfied over time if 
one of the criteria out of the following three is 
met:
- 	
The customer simultaneously receives and 
consumes a benefit provided by the group’s 
performance as the group performs.
- 	
The 
group’s 
performance 
creates 
or 
enhances an asset that a customer controls 
as asset is created or enhanced or 
- 	
The group’s performance doesn’t create an 
asset within an alternative use to the group 
and the company has an enforceable right 
to payment for performance completed to 
date. 
 	
Therefore the revenue recognition for a 
performance obligation is done over time if one 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 269 
of the criteria is met out of the above three.
(a) 	
Construction Projects 
	
Construction projects where the group is 
acting as contractor, revenue is recognised in 
accordance with the terms of the construction 
agreements. Under such contracts, assets 
created does not have an alternative use and 
the group has an enforceable right to payment. 
The estimated project cost includes construction 
cost, development and construction material and 
overheads of such project. The group uses cost 
based input method for measuring progress 
for performance obligation satisfied over time. 
Under this method, the group recognises revenue 
in proportion to the actual project cost incurred 
as against the total estimated project cost. The 
management reviews and revises its measure 
of progress periodically and are considered as 
change in estimates and accordingly, the effect 
of such changes in estimates is recognised 
prospectively in the period in which such changes 
are determined. However, when the total project 
cost is estimated to exceed total revenues from 
the project, the loss is recognized immediately. As 
the outcome of the contracts cannot be measured 
reliably during the early stages of the project, 
contract revenue is recognised only to the extent 
of costs incurred in the statement of profit and 
loss.
(b) 	
Lease Rental income 
	
 Revenue of Lease Rental is recognised over a 
period of time on an accrual basis in accordance 
with the terms of contract as and when the group 
satisfies performance obligations by delivery 
services as per contractual agreed terms.
(c ) 	 Project Management Fee
	
 Project Management fee is accounted as revenue 
upon satisfaction of performance obligation as 
per  agreed terms.
(d)	
Interest Income
	
Interest due on delayed payments by customers 
is accounted on accrual basis.
(e) 	
Income from trading sales
 	
Revenue from trading activities is accounted 
as revenue upon satisfaction of performance 
obligation.
(f) 	
Dividend income
 	
Dividend income is recognized when the right to 
receive the payment is established.
(iv) 	 Borrowing Cost
	
Borrowing cost that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition or construction of a qualifying asset 
(including real estate projects) are considered as part of 
the cost of the asset/project. All other borrowing costs 
are treated as period cost and charged to the statement 
of profit and loss in the year in which incurred
(v) 	
Property, Plant and Equipment
	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
Properties plant and equipment are stated at their 
cost of acquisition. The cost comprises purchase 
price, borrowing cost if capitalization criteria are met 
and directly attributable cost of bringing the asset to 
its working condition for the intended use. Any trade 
discount and rebates are deducted in arriving at the 
purchase price. Subsequent costs are included in the 
asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate 
asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that 
future economic benefits associated with the item will 
flow to the Group. All other repair and maintenance 
costs are recognised in statement of profit or loss as 
incurred.
	
Subsequent measurement (depreciation and useful 
lives)
 	
Property plant and equipment are subsequently 
measured at cost net of accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. Depreciation on 
Property Plant and Equipment is provided on  written 
down value method based on useful life of assets as 
specified in Schedule II to the Companies  Act, 2013 as 
under:
270 
Omaxe Limited
Assets Category 
Estimated 
useful life
(in years)
Estimated 
useful life as per 
schedule II to 
Companies Act, 
2013
(in years)
Office Building
60
60
Plant and 
Machinery
 Cranes
 Other items
15
12
15
12
Office 
Equipment
5
5
Furniture and 
Fixtures
10
10
Vehicles
8-10
8-10
Computers
 Server
 Others
6
3
6
3
 	
The 
group 
based 
on 
management 
estimates 
depreciates certain item i.e. Shuttering Material 
and  scaffolding over estimated useful life of 5 years 
considering obsolence as against 12 years specified in 
Schedule II to Companies Act, 2013. The management 
of the group believes that the estimated useful  life of 5 
years is realistic and reflects fair approximation of the 
period over which the assets are likely to  be used.
De-recognition
An item of property, plant and equipment and any 
significant part initially recognised is derecognized 
upon disposal or when no future economic benefits 
are expected from its use or disposal. Any gain or loss 
arising on de-recognition of the asset (calculated as the 
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset) is included in the income 
statement when the asset is derecognized.
Transition to Ind AS
On transition to Ind AS, the Company elected to fair 
value land within property, plant and equipment and 
used at value as deemed cost.
(vi) 	 Intangible Assets
	
Recognition and initial measurement
	
Intangible assets are stated at their cost of acquisition. 
The cost comprises purchase price, borrowing cost if 
capitalization criteria are met and directly attributable 
cost of bringing the asset to its working condition for 
the intended use. Any trade discount and rebates are 
deducted in arriving at the purchase price.
	
Subsequent measurement (amortization and useful 
lives)
	
Intangible assets comprising of ERP & other computer 
software are stated at cost of acquisition less 
accumulated amortization and are amortised over a 
period of four years on straight line method.
(vii) 	 Goodwill on Consolidation
	
 Goodwill represents the cost of acquired business as 
established at the date of acquisition of the  business 
in excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value 
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and  contingent 
liabilities less accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
Goodwill is tested for impairment  annually or when 
events or circumstances indicate that the implied fair 
value of  goodwill is less than its  carrying amount.
(viii)	 Impairment of Non Financial Assets
	
The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether 
there is any indication that an asset may be impaired. 
If any such indication exists, the Group estimates the 
recoverable amount of the asset. If such recoverable 
amount of the asset or the recoverable amount of the 
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is 
less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is 
reduced to its recoverable amount. The reduction is 
treated as an impairment loss and is recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss.
(ix) 	 Financial Instruments
(a)	
 Financial assets
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
Financial assets are recognised when the Group 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions 
of the financial instrument and are measured 
initially at fair value adjusted for transaction costs
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 271 
	
Subsequent measurement
(1) 	
Financial instruments at amortised cost – the 
financial instrument is measured at the amortised 
cost if both the following conditions are met:
(a) 	
The asset is held within a business model 
whose objective is to hold assets for 
collecting contractual cash flows, and
(b) 	
Contractual terms of the asset give rise on 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest (SPPI) on 
the principal amount outstanding.
	
After initial measurement, such financial 
assets 
are 
subsequently 
measured 
at amortised cost using the effective 
interest rate (EIR) method. All other debt 
instruments are measured at Fair Value 
through other comprehensive income or 
Fair value through profit and loss based on 
Group’s business model.
(2) 	
Investment in equity instruments of joint 
ventures and associates
	
Investment in equity instruments of joint 
ventures and associates are accounted for 
at cost in accordance with as per Ind AS 27 
‘Separate Financial Statements’.
(3) 	
Other 
Equity 
investments 
– 
All 
equity 
investments in scope of INDAS 109 are measured 
at fair value. Equity instruments which are held 
for trading are generally classified as at fair 
value through profit and loss (FVTPL). For all 
other equity instruments, the Group decides to 
classify the same either as at fair value through 
other comprehensive income (FVOCI) or fair 
value through profit and loss (FVTPL). The 
Group makes such election on an instrument by 
instrument basis. The classification is made on 
initial recognition and is irrevocable.
(4) 	
Mutual funds – All mutual funds in scope of Ind-
AS 109 are measured at fair value through profit 
and loss (FVTPL).
	
De-recognition of financial assets
	
A financial asset is primarily de-recognised when 
the rights to receive cash flows from the asset 
have expired or the Group has transferred its 
rights to receive cash flows from the asset. 
(b) 	
Financial liabilities 
	
Initial recognition and measurement
	
All financial liabilities are recognised initially 
at fair value and transaction cost that are 
attributable to the acquisition of the financial 
liabilities are also adjusted. These liabilities are 
carried at as amortised cost.
	
Subsequent measurement
	
Subsequent to initial recognition, these liabilities 
are measured at amortised cost using the 
effective interest method. These liabilities include 
borrowings and deposits.
	
De-recognition of financial liabilities
	
A financial liability is de-recognised when the 
obligation under the liability is discharged or 
cancelled or expired. When an existing financial 
liability is replaced by another from the same 
lender on substantially different terms, or on 
the terms of an existing liability are substantially 
modified, such an exchange or modification is 
treated as the de-recognition of the original 
liability and the recognition of a new liability. The 
difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
(c) 	
Compound financial instrument
	
Compound financial instrument are separated 
into liability and equity components based on the 
terms of the contract. On issuance of the said 
instrument, the liability component is arrived 
by discounting the gross sum at a market rate 
for an equivalent non-convertible instrument. 
This amount is classified as a financial liability 
measured at amortised cost until it is extinguished 
on conversion or redemption. The remainder of 
the proceeds is recognised as equity component 
272 
Omaxe Limited
of compound financial instrument. This is 
recognised and included in shareholders’ equity, 
net of income tax effects, and not subsequently 
re-measured.
(d) 	
Financial guarantee contracts
	
Financial guarantee contracts are those contracts 
that require a payment to be made to reimburse 
the holder for a loss it incurs because the 
specified party fails to make a payment when due 
in accordance with the terms of a debt instrument. 
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised 
initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for 
transaction costs that are directly attributable to 
the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequently, the 
liability is measured at the higher of the amount 
of expected loss allowance determined as per 
impairment requirements of Ind AS 109 and the 
amount recognised less cumulative amortization.
(e)	
Impairment of financial assets
	
The Group assesses on a forward looking basis 
the expected credit losses associated with its 
assets carried at amortised cost and FVOCI 
debt instruments. The impairment methodology 
applied depends on whether there has been a 
significant increase in credit risk. Note 53 details 
how the Group determines whether there has 
been a significant increase in credit risk.
	
For trade receivables only, the Group applies 
the simplified approach permitted by INDAS 109 
Financial Instruments, which requires expected 
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial 
recognition of the receivables.
(f) 	
Offsetting of financial instruments
	
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset 
and the net amount is reported in the balance 
sheet if there is a currently enforceable legal right 
to offset the recognised amounts and there is an 
intention to settle on a net basis, to realize the 
assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
(x) 	
Fair value measurement
	
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell 
as asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly 
transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. The fair value measurement is 
based on the presumption that the transaction to sell 
the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
•  
In the principal market for the asset or liability, or 
• 
In the absence of a principal market, in the most 
advantageous market for the asset or liability.
	
 The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured 
using the assumptions that market participants would 
use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that 
market participants act in their economic best interest.
 	
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes 
into account a market participant’s ability to generate 
economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and 
best use or by selling it to another market participant 
that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
	
The group uses valuation techniques that are 
appropriate in the circumstances and for which 
sufficient date are available to measure fair value, 
maximizing the use of relevant observable inputs:
•  
Level 1- Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in 
active markets for identical assets or  liabilities
• 
Level 2- Valuation techniques for which the lowest 
level input that is significant to the fair value 
measurement is directly or indirectly observable
•  
Level 3- Valuation techniques for which the 
lowest level input that is significant to the fair 
value  measurement is unobservable
	
For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the 
financial statements on a recurring basis, the group 
determines whether transfer have occurred between 
levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization 
(based on the lowest level input that is significant to the 
fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each 
reporting period.
	
For the purpose of fair value disclosure, the group have 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 273 
determined classes of assets and liabilities on the 
basis of nature, characteristics and risks of the asset 
or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as 
explained above. 
(xi) 	 Inventories and Projects in Progress
(a)	
 Inventories
(i) 	
Building material and consumable stores 
are valued at lower of cost and net realisable 
value. Cost is determined on the basis of 
the ‘First in First out’ method.
(ii) 	
Land is valued at lower of cost and net 
realisable value. Cost is determined on 
average method. Cost includes cost of 
acquisition and all related costs.
(iii) 	 Construction work in progress is valued at 
lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost 
includes cost of materials, services and 
other related overheads related to project 
under construction.
(iv) 	 Completed real estate project for sale is 
valued at lower of cost and net realizable 
value. Cost includes cost of land, materials, 
construction, services and other related 
overheads.
(v) 	
Stock in trade is valued at lower of cost and 
net realisable value.
(b) 	
Projects in progress
	
Projects in progress are valued at lower of 
cost and net realisable value. Cost includes 
cost of land, development rights, materials, 
construction, services, borrowing costs and other 
overheads relating to projects. 
(xii) 	 Foreign currency translation
(a) 	
Functional and presentation currency
	
The financial statements are presented in 
currency INR, which is also the functional 
currency of the Group and presented in crores.
(b) 	
Foreign currency transactions and balances
i. 	
Foreign currency transactions are recorded 
at exchange rates prevailing on the date of 
respective transactions.
ii. 	
Financial assets and financial liabilities in 
foreign currencies existing at balance sheet 
date are translated at year-end rates.
iii. 	
Foreign currency translation differences 
related to acquisition of imported fixed 
assets are adjusted in the carrying amount 
of the related fixed assets. All other foreign 
currency gains and losses are recognized in 
the statement of profit and loss.
(xiii) 	Retirement benefits
i. 	
Contributions payable by the Group to the 
concerned government authorities in respect of 
provident fund, family pension fund and employee 
state insurance are charged to the statement of 
profit and loss.
ii. 	
The Group is having Group Gratuity Scheme with 
Life Insurance Corporation of India. Provision for 
gratuity is made based on actuarial valuation in 
accordance with INDAS-19.
iii. 	
Provision for leave encashment in respect of 
unavailed leave standing to the credit of employees 
is made on actuarial basis in accordance with 
INDAS-19.
iv. 
Actuarial 
gains/losses 
resulting 
from 
re-
measurements of the liability/asset are included 
in other comprehensive income.
(xiv) 	Provisions, contingent assets and contingent liabilities
A provision is recognized when:
•  
the Group has a present obligation as a result of a 
past event;
• 
it is probable that an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits will be required to 
settle the obligation; and
•  
a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of 
the obligation.
274 
Omaxe Limited
	
A disclosure for a contingent liability is made when 
there is a possible obligation or a present obligation 
that may, but probably will not, require an outflow of 
resources. Where there is a possible obligation or a 
present obligation that the likelihood of outflow of 
resources is remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
(xv) 	 Earnings per share
	
Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the 
net profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders 
by the weighted average number of equity shares 
outstanding during the year.
	
For the purpose of calculating diluted earnings per 
share, the net profit for the year attributable to equity 
shareholders and the weighted average number of 
shares outstanding during the year are adjusted for the 
effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
(xvi) 	Leases
	
The group have follows INDAS 116 for leases. In 
accordance with INDAS 116, the group recognises right 
of use assets representing its right of use the underlying 
asset for the lease term at the lease commencement 
date. The cost of right of use asset measured at 
inception shall comprise of the amount of the initial 
measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any 
lease payments made at or before commencement date 
less any lease incentive received plus any initial direct 
cost incurred and an estimate of cost to be incurred by 
lessee in dismantling and removing underlying asset 
or restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is 
located. The right of use asset is subsequently measured 
at cost less accumulated depreciation, accumulated 
impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for any re-
measurement of lease liability. The right of use assets 
is depreciated using the Straight Line Method from the 
commencement date over the charter of lease term or 
useful life of right of use asset. The estimated useful 
life of right of use assets are determined on the same 
basis as those of Property, Plant and Equipment. Right 
of use asset are tested for impairment whenever there 
is any indication that their carrying amounts may not 
be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
The group measures the lease liability at the present 
value of the lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date of lease. The lease payments are 
discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, 
if that rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot 
be readily determined, the group uses incremental 
borrowing rate.
The lease liability is subsequently re-measured by 
increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on 
lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect 
the lease payments made and re-measuring the 
carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease 
modification or to reflect revised-in-substance fixed 
lease payments. The group recognises amount of re-
measurement of lease liability due to modification as 
an adjustment to write off use asset and statement 
of profit and loss depending upon the nature of 
modification. Where the carrying amount of right of use 
assets is reduced to zero and there is further reduction 
in measurement of lease liability, the group recognises 
any remaining amount of the re-measurement in 
Statement of Profit and Loss.
The group have elected not to apply the requirements of 
INDAS 116 to short term leases of all assets that have 
a lease term of 12 months or less unless renewable on 
long term basis and leases for which the underlying 
asset is of low value. The lease payments associated 
with these leases are recognised as an expense over 
lease term.
 Group as a lessor Leases in which the group does 
not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of an asset are classified as operating leases. 
Rental income from operating lease is recognised on a 
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. 
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging 
an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of 
the leased asset and recognised over the lease term 
on the same basis as rental income. Contingent rents 
are recognised as revenue in the period in which they 
are earned. Fit-out rental income is recognised in the 
statement of profit and loss on accrual basis.
	
Leases are classified as finance leases when 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 275 
transfer from the group to the lessee. Amounts due 
from lessees under finance leases are recorded as 
receivables at the group’s net investment in the leases. 
Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods 
so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the 
net investment outstanding in respect of the lease.
(xvii) 	Income Taxes
i. 	
Provision for current tax is made based on the tax 
payable under the Income Tax Act, 1961. Current 
income tax relating to items recognised outside 
profit and loss is recognised outside profit and 
loss (either in other comprehensive income or in 
equity)
ii. 	
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary 
differences between the carrying amounts of 
assets and liabilities in the financial statements 
and the corresponding tax bases used in the 
computation of taxable profit.
	
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the 
tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in 
which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based 
on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted 
or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting 
period. The carrying amount of deferred tax liabilities 
and assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting 
period.
(xviii)  Cash and Cash Equivalent
	
Cash and Cash equivalent in the balance sheet 
comprises cash at bank and cash on hand, demand 
deposits and short term deposits which are subject to 
an insignificant change in value.
  	
The amendment to INDAS-7 requires entities to 
provide disclosure of change in the liabilities arising 
from financing activities, including both changes 
arising from cash flows and non cash changes (such as 
foreign exchange gain or loss). The group have provided 
information for both current and comparative period in 
cash flow statement.
(xix)	 Significant management judgements in applying 
accounting policies and estimation of uncertainty
	
Significant management judgements
 
When preparing the financial statements, management 
undertakes a number of judgements, estimates and 
assumptions about the recognition and measurement 
of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
	
The following are significant management judgements 
in applying the accounting policies of the Group 
that have the most significant effect on the financial 
statements.
(a) 	
Recognition of deferred tax assets
	
The extent to which deferred tax assets can be 
recognized is based on an assessment of the probability 
of the Group’s future taxable income against which the 
deferred tax assets can be utilized.
(b) 	
Recoverability of advances/receivables
	
At each balance sheet date, based on historical default 
rates observed over expected life, the management 
assesses the expected credit loss on outstanding 
receivables and advances.
(c) 	
Defined benefit obligation (DBO)
	
Management’s estimate of the DBO is based on a 
number of critical underlying assumptions such 
as standard rates of inflation, medical cost trends, 
mortality, discount rate and anticipation of future 
salary increases. Variation in these assumptions may 
significantly impact the DBO amount and the annual 
defined benefit expenses.
(d) 	
Provisions
	
At each balance sheet date based on management 
judgment, changes in facts and legal aspects, the 
Group assesses the requirement of provisions against 
the outstanding warranties and guarantees. However 
the actual future outcome may be different from this 
judgement.
(e) 	
Inventories
	
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realisable 
276 
Omaxe Limited
value (NRV).
	
NRV for completed inventory is assessed including but 
not limited to market conditions and prices existing 
at the reporting date and is determined by the group 
based on net amount that it expects to realise from the 
sale of inventory in the ordinary course of business.
	
NRV in respect of inventories under construction is 
assessed with reference to market prices (by referring 
to expected or recent selling price) at the reporting 
date less estimated costs to complete the construction, 
and estimated cost necessary to make the sale. The 
costs to complete the construction are estimated by 
management.
(f) 	
Revenue from contracts with customers
 	
The group has applied judgements that significantly 
affect the determination of the amount and timing of 
revenue from contracts with customers. 
(g) 	
Lease
	
The group evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to 
be a lease as per the requirements of INDAS 116. 
Identification of a lease requires significant judgement. 
The group uses significant judgement in assessing the 
lease term (including anticipated renewals) and the 
applicable discount rate.
	
The group determines the lease term as the non-
cancellable period of lease, together with both periods 
covered by an option to extend the lease if the group 
is reasonably certain to exercise that option and 
periods covered by an option to terminate the lease 
if the group is reasonably certain not to exercise that 
option. In exercise whether the group is reasonably 
certain to exercise an option to extend a lease or to 
exercise an option to terminate the lease, it considers 
all relevant facts and circumstances that create an 
economic incentive for the company to exercise the 
option to extend the lease or to exercise the option to 
terminate the lease. The group revises lease term, if 
there is change in non-cancellable period of lease. The 
discount rate used is generally based on incremental 
borrowing rate.
(h)	
Fair value measurements
	
Management applies valuation techniques to determine 
the fair value of financial instruments (where active 
market quotes are not available) and non-financial 
assets. This involves developing estimates and 
assumptions consistent with how market participants 
would price the instrument / assets. Management 
bases its assumptions on observable date as far as 
possible but this may not always be available. In that 
case Management uses the best relevant information 
available. Estimated fair values may vary from the 
actual prices that would be achieved in an arm’s length 
transaction at the reporting date.
(i) 	
Classification of assets and liabilities into current and 
non-current
	
The Management classifies assets and liabilities 
into current and non-current categories based on its 
operating cycle.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 277 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2023
Note 1: PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Land # 
 Office 
Building 
 Plant and 
Machinery $ 
 Office 
Equipments 
 Furniture 
and Fixtures 
 Vehicles * 
 Computers 
 Total 
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1 April 2021
460.78
4.28
31.14
6.71
14.81
23.89
4.32
545.93
Additions
 - 
 - 
3.12
0.78
0.58
10.66
1.95
17.09
Disposals
(9.88)
 - 
(4.51)
(0.07)
(0.28)
(5.15)
(0.02)
(19.91)
Balance as at 31 March 2022
450.90
4.28
29.75
7.42
15.11
29.40
6.25
543.11
Balance as at 1 April 2022
450.90
4.28
29.75
7.42
15.11
29.40
6.25
543.11
Additions
 - 
 - 
3.47
0.86
2.27
8.45
1.79
16.84
Disposals
(5.56)
 - 
(4.47)
(0.12)
(0.47)
(4.40)
(0.07)
(15.09)
Balance as at 31 March 2023
445.34
4.28
28.75
8.16
16.91
33.45
7.97
544.86
Accumulated depreciation
Balance as at 1 April 2021
 - 
1.39
18.10
4.62
10.87
13.78
2.51
51.27
Depreciation charge during the year
 - 
0.17
3.16
0.95
1.16
3.56
1.37
10.37
Disposals
 - 
 - 
(3.01)
(0.04)
(0.19)
(4.84)
(0.01)
(8.09)
Balance as at 31 March 2022
 - 
1.56
18.25
5.53
11.84
12.50
3.87
53.55
Balance as at 1 April 2022
 - 
1.56
18.25
5.53
11.84
12.50
3.87
53.55
Depreciation charge during the year
 - 
0.15
2.77
0.88
1.17
5.62
1.90
12.49
Disposals
 - 
 - 
(2.71)
(0.10)
(0.32)
(3.82)
(0.06)
(7.01)
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 - 
1.71
18.31
6.31
12.69
14.30
5.71
59.03
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2023
445.34
2.57
10.44
1.85
4.22
19.15
2.26
485.83
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2022
450.90
2.72
11.50
1.89
3.27
16.90
2.38
489.56
# Land Rs. 9.90 Crore (9.90 Crore) is mortgaged against borrowing (refer note 19.1)
$ Plant & Machinery are hypothecated against working capital and equipment loans (refer Note 19.1 and 25.1)
* Vehicles are hypothecated against the vehicle loans (refer note: 19.1)
Note: 1.1
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 Year ended  
31 March 2023 
 Year ended  
31 March 2022
Depreciation has been charged to
- 	
Cost of land, material consumed, construction & other related project 	
cost (refer note 34)
2.77
3.16
- 	
Statement of profit & loss (refer note 38)
9.72
7.21
Total
12.49
10.37
Note: 1.2
The details of title deeds of immovable properties classified as Property, Plant and Equipment not held in the name of the 
group are given in Note No. 57.1.
278 
Omaxe Limited
Note 2: RIGHT OF USE ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Right of use as at beginning of the year
79.70
118.46
Add: Right of use assets added during the year
25.20 
21.99 
Less: 	 i) 	 Deletion of right of use of assets during the year
2.65 
21.43 
	
(ii) 	Depreciation on right of use assets (refer note 38)
55.55
39.32
Right of use as at the end of the year
46.70 
79.70 
Note 3: OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Software
Gross carrying amount
Balance as at 1 April 2021
2.32
Additions
0.06
Disposals
-
Balance as at 31 March 2022
 2.38 
Balance as at 1 April 2022
2.38
Additions
0.54
Disposals
-
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 2.92 
Accumulated Amortization
Balance as at 1 April 2021
2.22
Depreciation charge during the year
0.05 
Disposals
-
Balance as at 31 March 2022
 2.27 
Accumulated Amortization
Balance as at 1 April 2022
2.27
Depreciation charge during the year
0.10 
Disposals
-
Balance as at 31 March 2023
 2.37 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2023
 0.55 
Net carrying amount as at 31 March 2022
0.11
Note 3.1
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended 
March 2023
Year Ended 
March 2022
Amortization has been charged to
- Cost of land, material consumed, construction & other related project 	Cost
 - 
 - 
- Statement of profit & loss (refer note 38)
 0.10
 0.05
Total
0.10
0.05
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 279 
Note 3.2
The estimated amortization for year subsequent to 31-March-2023 are as under:	
(Rupees in Crore)
Year Ending
Amortization Expense
31 March 2024
0.16
31 March 2025
0.16
31 March 2026
0.15
31 March 2027
0.08
Total
0.55
Note 4: Goodwill on consolidation
Goodwill consist of the followings:-
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As At
31 March 2023
As At
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
57.99
57.99
Additional amount recognised from acquisition/ (deletion) during the year (net)
3.06
-
Impaired during the year
12.00
-
Balance at the end of the year
49.05
57.99
The group tests goodwill annually for impairment. Based on reasonable assumptions, the group considers that the recoverable 
amount of cash generating units would not decrease below its carrying value, hence, no further impairment in the carrying 
value of goodwill is required.
Note 5: NON CURRENT INVESTMENTS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Unquoted, at cost, fully paid up
 In Associate Companies 
 5,000 (5,000 ) Equity Shares of Parkash Omaxe Amusement Park Private 
Limited of Rs. 10 Each 
 0.01 
 0.01 
Share of Profit/(loss)
(0.00)
(0.00)
2,400 (2,400) Equity Shares of Capital Redevelopment Private Limited of Rs. 10 
each 
0.00 
0.00 
Share of Profit/(loss)
0.04
0.04
2,500 (2,500) Equity Shares of FBD Realgrow Private Limited of Rs. 10 each 
0.00
0.00
Share of Profit/(loss)
0.00
0.00
3,000 (Nil) Equity Shares of Omaxe Be Together Project Developers Private 
Limited
0.00
-
Share of Profit/(loss)
(0.00)
-
In Limited Liability Partnership
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP [Partnership Interest-99.99%* (PY-49.99%)] 
-
0.00
Share of Profit/(loss)
-
(0.00)
 
0.05
0.05
 Investments In Bonds - quoted, fully paid up 
 Nil (35) Units of Soverign Gold Bond 2016-17 
- 
0.02 
- 
0.02 
280 
Omaxe Limited
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
 Investments In Equity Instruments -Unquoted, Fully Paid up at Fair Market 
Value through OCI 
 1,496,500 (1,496,500) Equity Shares Of Delhi Stock Exchange Limited of Rs 1 
Each 
 12.12 
 11.17 
 12.12 
 11.17 
 Investments In Debentures - unquoted at cost, fully paid up 
 20,00,000 (20,00,000) 0.001% Convertible debentures of DSR Agro Services 
Private Limited of Rs. 10/- each 
 2.00 
 2.00 
 
2.00 
 2.00 
 Total 
 14.17 
13.24
* Partnership interest is considered as subsidiary during the year.
Note: 5.1 
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments in associates and LLP at amortized 
cost
0.05
0.05
Aggregated book value of quoted investments measured at 
Fair value through profit & loss 
-
0.01
Aggregate fair value of quoted investments measured through profit and loss
-
0.02
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments measured 
at Fair value through OCI 
10.48
10.48
Aggregate fair value of unquoted investments measured 
at Fair value through OCI 
12.12
11.17
Aggregate amount of unrealized gain/ (loss) recognized through OCI
1.64
0.69
Note 5.2:
The fair value of investments carried at fair value through OCI has been determined by registered valuer as defined in Rule 2 
of Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017. 
Note 6: NON CURRENT OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
(Unsecured-considered good unless stated otherwise)
Security Deposits 
 Considered Good 
12.19 
6.98 
 Credit impaired
 1.80 
 1.80 
 Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
 (1.80) 
 (1.80) 
Bank Deposits with maturity of more than 12 months held as margin money 
80.93 
45.26 
 Interest Accrued On Deposits & Others 
 0.53 
 0.90 
 Other Advances 
(Unsecured-considered good unless stated otherwise)
 -Considered good 
10.26 
11.78 
 -Credit impaired
17.79 
17.01 
 Less: Allowance for expected credit losses 
(17.79) 
(17.01) 
 Total 
 103.91 
 64.92 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 281 
Note 6.1: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses in security deposits
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at 31 March 
2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 1.80 
1.80
Movement in amount of provision (Net) 
- 
- 
Balance at the end of the year 
 1.80 
 1.80 
Note 6.2: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses in other advances
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 17.01 
 15.32 
Movement in amount of provision (Net) 
0.78
1.69
Balance at the end of the year 
 17.79 
 17.01 
Note - 7: DEFERRED TAX ASSETS- NET
The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at 
31 March 2022
At the beginning of the year
317.24
280.30 
Credit/ (Charge) to statement of profit and loss (refer note 40)
108.27
36.69
Credit/ (Charge) to other comprehensive income
 (0.44) 
 0.25 
Transfer to capital reserve
0.03
-
Adjustment in MAT Credit
(0.01)
-
At the end of the year
425.09
317.24
Component of deferred tax assets/ (liabilities):
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
 Deferred Tax Assets 
 MAT Credit 
1.14
1.15
 Unaborsed business losses
467.32
368.82
 Difference Between Book And Tax Base of Fixed Assets 
6.47
6.63
 Provisions 
21.97
13.24
 Fair valuation of Equity Investments 
0.10
-
 Others 
7.82 
7.70 
 Impact of INDAS116
8.84
9.29
 Deferred Tax Liabilities 
 On account of conversion of fixed asset into stock in trade 
 (0.01) 
 (0.04) 
 Fair valuation of Property, Plant and Equipment 
(88.56) 
(89.55) 
 Total 
425.09
317.24
Note 7.1: The group have recognized deferred tax assets in respect of losses, as there is reasonable certainty of their 
recoverability in near future.
282 
Omaxe Limited
Note 8: NON CURRENT TAX ASSETS (NET)
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
 Direct tax refundable* 
135.39
158.02
 Less: Provision for disputed tax demands
11.18 
11.18 
 Total 
124.21 
146.84 
*Includes Rs. 51.06 Crore (Rs. 85.24 Crore) representing amount deposited under protest against demand raised and pending 
for appeal at various levels.
Note 9: OTHER NON CURRENT ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Loan and advances to
-Others
-
0.01
Prepaid Expenses
13.19
13.72
 Total 
 13.19
 13.73
Note 10: INVENTORIES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
 Building Material and Consumables 
 45.75
 28.21
 Land 
1,087.10 
868.89 
 Construction Work In Progress 
24.85
23.46
 Completed Real Estate Projects 
 573.91 
 488.45 
 Project In Progress 
 8,698.20
 7,858.22
 Total 
10,429.81
9,267.23
Note 11: TRADE RECEIVABLES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
(Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
 Considered Good 
 384.92 
 384.38 
 Credit impaired 
 0.78 
 0.78 
385.70
385.16
Less: Allowance for expected credit loss
0.78
0.78
 Total 
384.92
384.38
Note 11.1: Movement in allowance for expected credit loss
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
 0.78 
 0.78
Movement in amount of provision (Net) 
-
 -
Balance at the end of the year 
0.78 
 0.78
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to large and unrelated customer base. 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 283 
Note 11.2: Ageing of Trade Receivables as at 31 March 2023 is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 6 
months
6 months-1 
year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 3 
Years
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
considered good
263.04
9.22
5.60
6.23
14.09
63.37
361.55
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed Trade Receivables-
considered good
7.22
0.09
-
0.13
0.05
15.88
23.37
Disputed Trade Receivables-
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
0.78
Disputed Trade Receivables-
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
270.26
9.31
5.60
6.36
14.14
80.03
385.70
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
0.78
Total
270.26
9.31
5.60
6.36
14.14
79.25
384.92
Note 11.3: Ageing of Trade Receivables as at 31 March 2022 is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payment
Total
Not Due
Less than 6 
months
6 months-1 
year
1-2 Years
2-3 Years
More than 3 
Years
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
considered good
216.18
42.10
3.91
17.27
11.76
63.24
354.46
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Undisputed Trade Receivables-
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed Trade Receivables-
considered good
14.17
0.03
0.03
0.01
0.70
14.98
29.92
Disputed Trade Receivables-
which have significant increase 
in credit risk
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
0.78
Disputed Trade Receivables-
credit impaired
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
230.35
42.13
3.94
17.28
12.46
79.00
385.16
Less: Allowance for expected 
credit loss
-
-
-
-
-
0.78
0.78
230.35
42.13
3.94
17.28
12.46
78.22
384.38
Note 11.4: Trade Receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on terms as per contract / agreement. 
284 
Omaxe Limited
Note 12: CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
 Balances With Banks:- 
 In Current Accounts 
173.37 
84.62 
 In Deposit Account With Maturity Of Less Than Three Months 
5.00
0.07
 Cheques Drafts On Hand 
4.42
36.92
 Cash on Hand 
7.66
4.81
 Stamp on Hand 
1.29
0.13
 Total 
191.74
126.55
Note 13: OTHER BANK BALANCES
	
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
In Earmarked Accounts 
In Unpaid Dividend Account 
0.11
0.14
Deposit with maturity of more than three months but less than twelve months
Pledge / Earmarked 
206.71
172.82
Fixed Deposits against Borrowings
7.43
1.63
Others
87.18
-
 Total 
301.43
174.59
Note 14: CURRENT LOANS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
(Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
 Loan to Others 
 - 
 18.76 
 Total 
-
18.76
Note 15: CURRENT OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Security Deposits
Considered Good
36.98
34.39
Interest Accrued On Deposits & Others 
3.12
1.33
 Advance Recoverable in Cash 
 (Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
- 	
From Related parties
-
4.33
-	
From Others 
204.25
202.52
Credit Impaired 
-	
From Others
33.44
8.16
- 	
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses 
(33.44)
(8.16)
Other receivables 
 
 
- 	
Receivable against sale of investment
1.95
3.12
Credit impaired
-	
Receivable against sale of investment considered doubtful
5.85
4.68
-	
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses 
(5.85)
(4.68)
Total 
 246.30 
 245.69 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 285 
Note 15.1: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
8.16 
6.24 
Movement in amount of provision (Net)
25.28
1.92
Balance at the end of the year 
33.44 
8.16 
Note 15.2: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses for receivables
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year 
4.68 
3.51 
Movement in amount of provision (Net) 
1.17
1.17
Balance at the end of the year 
5.85
4.68
Note 16: OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
(Unsecured considered good unless stated otherwise)
Advance against goods, services and others
 - Others considered good 
648.97
466.76 
Credit Impaired
 - Others
6.73
6.60
 -Less: Allowance for expected credit losses
(6.73)
(6.60)
648.97
466.76 
 Balance With Government / Statutory Authorities 
 87.18 
 44.03 
 Prepaid Expenses 
7.19 
6.80 
 Total 
 743.34 
 517.59 
Note 16.1: Movement in allowance for expected credit losses
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
6.60
6.98
Movement in amount of provision (Net)
0.13
(0.38)
Balance at the end of the year 
6.73
6.60
Note 17: Equity Share Capital
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Authorised
210,000,000 (210,000,000) Equity Shares of Rs.10 Each
210.00 
210.00 
350,000,000 (350,000,000) Preference Shares of Rs.10 Each
 350.00 
 350.00 
 560.00 
 560.00 
Issued, Subscribed & Paid Up 
182,900,540 (182,900,540) Equity Shares of Rs.10 Each Fully Paid Up
182.90 
 182.90 
 182.90 
 182.90 
286 
Omaxe Limited
Note-17.1: Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
 As at  31 March 2023
 As at 31 March 2022
Numbers
 Rupees in 
Crore 
Numbers
 Rupees in 
Crore 
Equity Shares of Rs. 10 each fully paid
Shares outstanding at the beginning of the year 
182,900,540
182.90
182,900,540
182.90
Shares Issued during the year 
-
-
-
-
Shares bought back during the year
-
-
-
-
Shares outstanding at the end of the year
182,900,540
182.90
182,900,540
182.90
Note-17.2: Terms/rights attached to shares
Equity
The company has only one class of equity shares having a par value of Rs. 10 per share. Each holder of equity shares is entitled 
to one vote per share. The company declares and pays dividend in Indian rupees. The dividend proposed by board of directors is 
subject to the approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting. In the event of liquidation of the company, 
the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive remaining assets of the company, after distribution of all preferential 
amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders. 
Note-17.3: Shares held by holding company and subsidiary of holding Company in aggregate
Name of Shareholder
 As at  31 March 2023 
 As at  31 March 2022
Number of 
shares held
 Rupees in 
Crore 
Number of 
shares held
 Rupees in 
Crore 
Equity Shares
Guild Builders Private Limited (Holding Company)
116,273,971
116.27
116,273,971
116.27
Dream Home Developers Private Limited (subsidiary of the 
holding Company)
8,925,117
8.93
8,925,117
8.93
Note-17.4: Detail of shareholders holding more than 5% shares in capital of the company
Equity Shares
Name of Shareholder
 As at  31 March 2023 
 As at  31 March 2022
Number of 
shares held
% of Holding
Number of 
shares held
 % of Holding 
Guild Builders Private Limited 
 116,273,971
 63.57 
 116,273,971
 63.57 
Note-17.5: The Company has not allotted any other fully paid shares except as above pursuant to contract(s) without payment 
being received in cash and has neither allotted any fully paid up shares by way of bonus shares nor has bought back any class 
of shares during the period of five years immediately preceding the balance sheet date.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 287 
Note - 17.6: Shareholding of promoter
Shares held by promoter as at 31 March 2023
Promoter Name
Shares held by promoters
% Change 
during the year
As at 31 March 2023
As at 31 March 2022
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
Rohtas Goel
2,747,250
1.50
2,747,250
1.50
-
Rohtas Goel HUF
13,500
0.01
13,500
0.01
-
Sushma Goel
2,377,810
1.30
2,377,810
1.30
-
Sunil Goel
3,336,120
1.82
3,336,120
1.82
-
Seema Goel
21,000
0.01
21,000
0.01
-
Sunil Goel HUF
13,500
0.01
13,500
0.01
-
Jai Bhagwan Goel
998,650
0.55
998,650
0.55
-
Rekha Goel
900,000
0.49
900,000
0.49
-
Guild Builders Private Limited
116,273,971
63.57
116,273,971
63.57
-
Dream Home Developers 
Private Limited
8,925,117
4.88
8,925,117
4.88
-
 
135,606,918
74.14
135,606,918
74.14
 
Shares held by promoter as at 31 March 2022
Promoter Name
Shares held by promoters
% Change 
during the year
As at 31 March 2022
As at 31 March 2021
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
No. of shares
% of total 
shares
Rohtas Goel
2,747,250
1.50
2,747,250
1.50
-
Rohtas Goel HUF
13,500
0.01
13,500
0.01
-
Sushma Goel
2,377,810
1.30
2,377,810
1.30
-
Sunil Goel
3,336,120
1.82
3,336,120
1.82
-
Seema Goel
21,000
0.01
21,000
0.01
-
Sunil Goel HUF
13,500
0.01
13,500
0.01
-
Jai Bhagwan Goel
998,650
0.55
998,650
0.55
-
Rekha Goel
900,000
0.49
900,000
0.49
-
Guild Builders Private Limited
116,273,971
63.57
116,273,971
63.57
-
Dream Home Developers 
Private Limited
8,925,117
4.88
8,925,117
4.88
-
 
135,606,918
74.14
135,606,918
74.14
 
Note 18: OTHER EQUITY
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Equity component of compound financial instruments
225.22
225.22
Reserve and Surplus
Securities Premium
499.61
499.61
Capital Reserve
0.08
0.20
Retained Earnings/ (Deficit)
(407.09)
(59.18)
General Reserve
395.63
395.63
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation
(0.51)
(1.06)
Equity instrument at fair value through Other comprehensive income
2.37
1.64
Total
715.31
1,062.06
288 
Omaxe Limited
Movement of other equity is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended
31 March 2023
Year Ended
31 March 2022
Equity component of compound financial instruments
225.22
225.22
Reserve and Surplus
Securities premium
499.61
499.61
Capital Reserve 
As per last balance sheet
0.20
0.20
Add: Transferred from deferred tax liability
0.04
-
Less: Transfer to other income on account of capital profit pursuant to Sec 45(2) 
of Income Tax Act, 1956
0.16
-
Balance at the end of the year
0.08
0.20
Retained Earnings (Deficit)
Profit/(Loss) as per last balance sheet
(59.18)
100.35
Add: Net profit/(loss) for the current year
(347.91)
(159.53)
Profit/(Loss) available for appropriation
(407.09)
(59.18)
General reserve
395.63
395.63
Other comprehensive income
Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation
As per last balance sheet
(1.06)
(0.14)
Add: Current year transfer
0.55
(0.92)
Balance at the end of year
(0.51)
(1.06)
Equity instrument at fair value through Other comprehensive income
As per last balance sheet
1.64
0.96
Add: Current year transfer
0.73
0.68
Balance at the end of year
2.37
1.64
Total
715.31
1,062.06
Nature and Purposes of Reserve forming part of Other Equity
a)	 Equity component of compound financial instruments- represents equity component of 0.10% Non-Cumulative, Non-
Convertible, Redeemable Preference Share
b)	 Securities Premium- Security premium includes premium on issue of shares. It will be utilized in accordance with the 
provisions of the Companies Act 2013.
c)	
Capital Reserve- This reserve is created due to transfer to other income on account of capital profit pursuant to sec 45(2) 
of Income Tax Act, 1961.
d)	 Retained Earnings/(Deficit)- This reserve represents accumulated earnings/(Deficit) of the Company as on the balance 
sheet date.
e)	 General Reserve- This reserve is created out of profits earned and is a free reserve. 
f)	
Other comprehensive income- The Company has elected to recognize changes in the fair value of investment in equity 
securities and remeasurement of defined benefit obligation in other comprehensive income.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 289 
Note 19: BORROWINGS – NON CURRENT
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Secured
Term Loans
Debenture
470.00
-
Banks
19.47
69.91
Non Banking Financial Companies 
6.19
30.01
Housing Finance Companies
160.89
327.21
Vehicle Loan 
5.98
4.34
662.53 
 431.47 
Unsecured loans
Preference Capital
250,000,000 (250,000,000) 0.1% Non-Cumulative, Non Convertible, Redeemable 
Preference Share Capital Of Rs 10 Each
99.75 
85.27
Total
 762.28 
516.74
Note 19.1: Nature of security of long term borrowings are as under:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
S. 
No.
 
Particulars
 
 Amount outstanding as at 
 Current Maturity 
31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
 31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
 
Secured
 
 
 
 
1
Unrated Secured Non-Convertible debentures are secured 
by way of equitable mortgage on Project & the Project site 
including all structure there upon, movable/ immovable 
assets and Hypothecation of receivables of the project. 
These are further secured by pledge of shares held by 
promoter companies, personal guarantee of Promoter(s) 
of the Company and corporate guarantee of Promoter 
Company.
440.00
-
-
-
2
Unrated Senior Secured Non-Convertible debentures are 
secured by way of equitable mortgage on project land & all 
structure there upon and Hypothecation of receivables of the 
project. These are further secured by personal guarantee 
of Promoter(s) of the Company and corporate guarantee of 
Promoter Company.
30.00
-
-
-
3
Term loan from banks are secured by equitable mortgage of 
project properties of the company/subsidiaries/ associates/ 
other companies and charge on receivable, material at site 
and work in progress as applicable. 
These loans are further secured by pledge of shares held by 
promoter companies and personal guarantee of director(s) 
of the Company and secured by corporate guarantee of 
subsidiaries / associates / promoters /other companies.
44.25
214.30
24.78
144.39
4
Term loan from Financial Institutions are secured by 
equitable mortgage of project land of the company 
/ 
subsidiary 
company/ 
associate/other 
company. 
Term loan from financial institution are further secured by 
personal guarantee of director(s) of the Company & pledge 
of shares held by promoter companies. These loans are 
further secured by corporate guarantee of subsidiaries / 
associates / promoters /other companies.
-
12.55
-
12.55
290 
Omaxe Limited
S. 
No.
 
Particulars
 
 Amount outstanding as at 
 Current Maturity 
31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
 31 March 
2023
31 March 
2022
5
Term loan from Non-Banking Financial Companies are 
secured by equitable mortgage of project properties, fixed 
assets of the Company/ subsidiaries/ associate companies 
& charge over cash flow of the project(s), and corporate 
guarantee of such companies. These loans are further 
secured by pledge of shares held by promoter companies 
and personal guarantee of director(s) of the Company.
25.81
42.91
19.62
12.90
6
Term loan from housing finance companies are secured 
by equitable mortgage of project land & hypothecation 
of receivables of the company/ subsidiary/ associate 
company and pledge of shares of subsidiary company 
and shares of the company held by promoter / promoter 
companies and corporate guarantee of such companies. 
Term loan from housing finance companies are further 
secured by personal guarantee of director(s) of the 
Company.
357.99
546.60
197.10
219.39
7
Vehicle loan are secured by hypothecation of the vehicles 
purchased there against.
7.96
6.28
1.98
1.94
 
Unsecured
 
 
 
 
8
Fixed Deposit from Public
-
13.79
-
13.79
9
The Company has one class of non-convertible redeemable 
preference shares and having a par value of Rs. 10 per 
share. The preference shares carry a right to preferential 
dividend of 0.1 % per annum in relation to capital paid on 
them and are redeemable upon 20 years from the date of 
allotment with call and put option for redemption after 
10 years from the date of allotment. The redemption of 
preference share shall be at a premium of 6% per annum 
from the date of allotment over and above the total issue 
price per preference share and premium will be prorate/
proportionate to the period of holding of these shares. 
As the aforesaid preference shares carry nominal rate of 
preference dividend and premium on redemption, therefore, 
on transition to INDAS, these has been considered as 
compound financial instrument, which has been bifurcated 
into liability and equity components. In subsequent years, 
the liability part is increased with the notional interest 
computed using effective interest rate and said interest is 
charged to statement of profit and loss.
Further, the premium payable on redemption of preference 
shares shall be provided out of the profit of the company 
or out of securities premium before the preference shares 
are redeemed. The company has chosen to pay premium 
on such redemption out of securities premium account, 
therefore, no appropriation out of profit have been made. 
The terms and conditions may be modified/ varied/ amended 
with due approval.
99.75
85.27
 - 
 - 
10
Interest accrued & due on borrowings
0.25
6.35
0.25
6.35
 
Total
1,006.01
928.05
243.73
411.31
Less: Current maturities of long term borrowing (refer 
note no. 25)
243.73
411.31
Total
762.28
516.74
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 291 
Note 19.2: The year wise repayment schedule of long term borrowing:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 outstanding as at
 31 March 2023 
Years wise repayment schedule
within 1 year
1 -2 year
2-3 year
3-6 year
more than 6 
years
Secured
Term loans
Debenture
470.00
-
440.00
-
30.00
-
Banks
44.25
24.78
4.40
5.07
10.00
 - 
Non-banking financial 
companies
25.81
19.62
3.72
2.47
-
-
Housing finance 
companies
357.99
197.10
115.75
34.80
10.35
 - 
Vehicle loans
7.96
1.98
1.86
1.97
2.15
 - 
Unsecured
Term loans
Fixed deposits from public
-
-
-
-
-
 - 
Preference Capital
0.1% Non-Cumulative, Non 
Convertible, Redeemable 
Preference Share Capital 
of Rs. 10 Each
99.75
-
-
-
-
99.75
Interest accrued & due on 
borrowings
0.25
0.25
 - 
-
-
 - 
Total Long Term 
Borrowings
1,006.01
243.73
565.73
44.31
52.50
99.75
Note 19.3: The group is regular in repayment of principal and interest to Bank, Financial Institution, Non-Banking Financial 
Companies, Housing Finance Companies as per stipulation and there are no defaults in repayment of principal and interest to 
any lender as at the balance sheet date.
Note 19.4:  The group has not been declared as willful defaulter by any Bank or Financial Institution or any Government 
Authorities.
Note 19.5:  The loans taken by the group during the year have been utilized for the purpose for which they were obtained.
Note 19.6: Funds raised by the group on short term loan have not been used for long term purposes.
Note 19.7: The group have not raised any funds from Banks / Financial Institution / Non-Banking Financial Companies / 
Housing Finance Company and from any other entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of Subsidiaries / Joint 
Venture or Associates.
Note 19.8: There are no charges to be registered or satisfaction of charges which are yet to be satisfied beyond statutory 
period.
292 
Omaxe Limited
Note 20: NON-CURRENT LEASE LIABILITIES
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Lease Liabilities (refer note no. 46) 
15.40
87.43
 Total 
15.40
87.43
Note 21: NON CURRENT TRADE PAYABLES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
Other Trade Payables due to micro enterprises and small enterprises
-
-
Total (A)
-
-
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small 
enterprises
Deferred payment liabilities
- In respect of land purchased on deferred credit terms from authorities
 106.99 
-
- In respect of development & other charges to be paid on deferred credit terms 
to authorities [secured to the extent of Rs. 42.95 crore (PY Rs. 117.26 crore) by 
way of hypothecation of project properties]
 114.51 
171.69
Total (B)
221.50
171.69
Total (A+B)
221.50
171.69
Note 21.1: The non-current trade payables are payable after 31 March 2024, hence not due for payment as at 31st March, 2023, 
therefore ageing of non-current trade payables has not been given.
Note 21.2: Deferred Payment Liabilities in respect of development and other charges payable to various authorities are to be 
settled in accordance with terms of payment.
Note 22: NON CURRENT OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES
 	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Security deposits received
 34.78 
 26.40 
Rebates payable to customers
30.64
117.64
Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 
88.78
-
Total
154.20
 144.04 
Note 23: OTHER NON CURRENT LIABILITIES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Deferred Income
 4.36 
 4.24 
Total
 4.36
 4.24
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 293 
Note 24: PROVISIONS – NON CURRENT
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Provision for Employee Benefits
Leave Encashment
4.42
3.96
Gratuity
 15.04
 14.15
Total
19.46
18.11
Note 25: BORROWINGS - CURRENT
	
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Secured
Working Capital Loans From Banks
- 
10.32 
Loan against Fixed Deposits
0.72
0.77
Term Loan from Bank
0.10
-
Total (A)
0.82 
11.09 
Unsecured loans
Promoter Companies (Repayable On Demand)
 15.18 
 17.39 
Other loan from directors
 0.02 
 2.92 
Others (repayable on demand)
0.05 
1.00 
Inter Corporate Loan
0.26
47.50
Total (B)
 15.51
 68.81
Total (A+B)
16.33
79.90
Current maturities of long-term borrowings (refer note no. 19.1)
243.73
411.31
Grand Total
260.06
491.21
Note 25.1: Nature of security of Short Term Borrowings are as under:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Amount Outstanding
 As at 
31 March 2023 
 As at 
31 March 2022
Secured
Working capital loans from banks are secured by first charge on current assets 
of the company including stock at site, receivables, plant and machinery and 
mortgage of certain land of the Company/ subsidiaries/associates companies.
The working capital loans are further secured by personal guarantee of director(s) 
of the Company / corporate guarantee of promoter companies.
-
10.32
Loan against Fixed Deposits
 0.72 
 0.77
Short Term Loan from Bank and is secured by way of lien against Fixed Deposits 
maintained with lender
0.10
-
Unsecured
Inter corporate loans from promoter companies (repayable on demand)
 15.18 
 17.39
Loans from directors (repayable on demand)
 0.02 
 2.92 
Other unsecured loans (repayable on demand)
 0.05 
 1.00 
Inter Corporate Loan
0.26
47.50
Total
 16.33 
79.90
294 
Omaxe Limited
Note 25.2: In respect of borrowings from banks on the basis of current assets, the quarterly returns or statement of current 
assets filed by the group are in agreement with books of accounts.
Note 26: CURRENT LEASE LIABILITIES
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Lease Liabilities (refer note no. 46) 
69.15
33.04
 Total 
69.15
33.04
Note 27: CURRENT TRADE PAYABLES
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
Other Trade Payables due to micro enterprises and small enterprises
36.08
20.72
Total (A)
36.08
20.72
Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and
Small enterprises
Deferred Payment Liabilities
- In respect of land purchased on deferred credit terms from authorities
 311.68 
 252.79
- In respect of development & other charges to be paid on deferred credit terms 
to authorities [secured to the extent of Rs. 97.78 crore (PY Rs. 87.31 crore) by 
way of hypothecation of project properties]
 368.24 
 339.73
- Others
 477.68 
 389.92
Total (B)
1,157.60
982.44
Total (A+B)
1,193.68
1,003.16
Note-27.1: The information as required to be disclosed under The Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 
2006 (“the Act”) has been determined to the extent such parties have been identified by the group, on the basis of information 
and records available.
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
The principal amount due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end 
of each accounting year
36.08
20.72
The interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at the end of each 
accounting year
5.36
3.55
Payment made to suppliers (other than interest) beyond appointed day during 
the year
23.04
22.01
The amount of interest paid by the buyer under MSMED Act, 2006 along with the 
amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed by during 
each accounting year
 - 
 - 
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment 
but without adding the interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006
0.93
1.07
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of the accounting 
year
11.87
13.35
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding 
year, until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the 
small enterprise, for the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure 
under section 23 of MSMED Act 2006 
(1.48)
0.40
Note-27.2: Ageing of Trade Payables Outstanding as at 31 March, 2023 is as follows:
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 295 
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
MSME
2.19
26.97
2.99
2.03
1.90
36.08
Others
414.72
189.16
64.58
23.02
466.12
1,157.60
Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
416.91
216.13
67.57
25.05
468.02
1,193.68
Note-27.3: Ageing of Trade Payables Outstanding as at 31 March, 2022 is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Outstanding for following periods from due date of payments
Not Due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Total
MSME
7.46
6.36
2.84
2.85
1.21
20.72
Others
222.26
174.95
31.50
60.18
493.55
982.44
Disputed dues-MSME
-
-
-
-
-
-
Disputed dues-Others
-
-
-
-
-
-
Total
229.72
181.31
34.34
63.03
494.76
1,003.16
Note 28: Current Other Financial Liabilities
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Interest Accrued But Not Due On Borrowings
10.85
13.01
Rebate Payable
38.74
123.36
Interest on Trade Payables
784.84
642.70
Security Deposit Received
83.20 
97.98 
Dues to Directors
 1.11 
 6.42 
Payable to employees
10.31
12.31
Other Liabilities 
 147.06 
 137.70 
Unpaid Dividend *
 0.11 
 0.14 
Unpaid Matured Deposits *
 0.86 
 1.86 
Total
1,077.08
 1,035.48
* There are no amounts required to be transferred to Investor Education and Protection Fund by the group.
Note 29: Other Current Liabilities
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Statutory Dues Payable
 23.37
 19.06
Deferred Income
0.62
0.64
Advance from customers and others
-From Related Parties
 133.29
 56.04
-From Others
 8,711.90
 7,071.12
Total
 8,869.18
 7,146.86
296 
Omaxe Limited
Note 30: PROVISIONS - CURRENT
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Provision for Employee Benefits
Leave Encashment
0.84 
0.86 
Gratuity
 0.75 
 0.96 
Others
Provision for unrealised profit
 1.41 
 1.19 
Total
3.00
3.01
Note 31: CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 As at  
31 March 2023 
 As at  
31 March 2022
Current Tax Liabilities 
0.88
3.20
 Total 
0.88
3.20
Note 32: REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Income From Real Estate Projects
726.90
496.97
Income From Trading Goods
3.58
3.88
Income From Construction Contracts
0.15
3.83
Other Operating Revenue
42.70
113.12
Total
773.33
617.80
Note 32.1: Timing of revenue recognition
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Revenue recognition at a point of time
698.52
424.16
Revenue recognition over period of time
74.81
193.64
Total revenue from contracts with customers
773.33
617.80
Note 32.2: Disaggregation of revenue is as below:- 
(Rupees in Crore)
Nature of Revenue
Year Ended 31 March 2023
Year Ended 31 March 2022
Operating 
Revenue
Other 
Operating 
Revenue
Total
Operating 
Revenue
Other 
Operating 
Revenue
Total
Real Estate Projects
726.90
12.21
739.11
496.97
9.22
506.19
Trading
3.58
-
3.58
3.88
-
3.88
Others
0.15
30.49
30.64
3.83
103.90
107.73
Total
730.63
42.70
773.33
504.68
113.12
617.80
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 297 
Note 32.3
The aggregate value of transaction price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations is Rs. 
12,237.21 crore (Rs. 8,106.69 crore) which is expected to be recognised as revenue in the subsequent years, however revenue 
to be recognised in next one year is not ascertainable due to nature of industry in which group are operating.
Note 32.4 Advance against unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Advances at beginning of the year
7,127.16
5,740.01
Add: Advances received during the year (net)
2,358.07
2,004.95
Less: Revenue recognised during the year
773.33
617.80
Advances at the end of the year
8,711.90
7,127.16
Note 32.5 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Contracted price
809.50
680.43
Reduction towards variable consideration components
36.17
62.63
Revenue recognized
773.33
617.80
Note 33: Other Income
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Interest Income 
On Bank Deposits
9.31
4.52
Others
5.23
6.10
Liabilities No Longer Required Written Back (Net)
5.50
1.78
Profit on Sale of Fixed Assets
0.90
3.75
Transfer from capital reserve
0.16
-
Miscellaneous Income
3.15
2.73
Gain on financial assets/liabilities carried at amortised cost
0.43
1.26
Total
24.68
20.14
Note 34: Cost Of Land, Material Consumed, Construction & Other Related Project Cost
	
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Inventory at the Beginning of The Year
Building Materials and Consumables 
28.21
 40.50 
Land
868.89
768.46
Land of subsidiary company acquired during the year
0.41
-
 897.51 
 808.96 
Add: Incurred During the Year
Land, Development and Other Rights
717.94
426.38
Building Materials Purchases
257.23
119.89
Construction Cost 
484.16
271.54
Employee Cost 
105.26
75.65
298 
Omaxe Limited
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Rates And taxes
32.72
16.11
Administration Cost
64.15
33.45
Depreciation
2.76
3.16
Power & Fuel and Other Electrical Cost
30.33
19.41
Repairs & Maintenance-Plant & Machinery
0.20
0.10
Finance Cost
333.71
256.02
2,028.46
1,221.71
Less: Inventory at the End of The Year
Building Materials and Consumables
45.75
28.21
Land
1,087.10
868.89
1,132.85
897.10
Total
1,793.12
1,133.57
Note 35: Changes In Inventories of Finished Stock and Project in Progress 
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Inventory at the Beginning of The Year
Completed Real Estate Projects
488.45
468.98 
Construction Work In Progress
23.46
 22.70 
Projects In Progress 
7,858.22
 7,302.46 
8,370.13
7,794.14 
Inventory at the End of The Year
Completed Real Estate Projects
573.91
488.45
Construction Work In Progress
24.85
23.46
Projects In Progress 
8,698.20
7,858.22
9,296.96
8,370.13
Changes In Inventory
(926.83)
(575.99)
Note 36: Employee Benefits Expense
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Salaries, Wages, Allowances And Bonus 
133.21
105.76
Contribution To Provident And Other Funds
2.04
1.67
Directors Remuneration
6.95
6.72
Staff Welfare Expenses
2.42
1.84
144.62
115.99
Less: Allocated to Projects
105.26
75.65
Total
39.36
40.34
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 299 
Note 37: Finance Costs
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Interest On
-	
Term Loans
98.40
164.65
-	
Others
320.70
185.71
-	
Lease Liability
7.57
8.06
Other Borrowing Cost
0.33
0.89
Guarantee Commission and Bank Charges
4.75
4.31
Finance Charge on compound financial instrument
14.76
13.49
446.51
377.11
Less: Allocated to Projects
333.71
256.02
Total
112.80
121.09
Note 38: Depreciation And Amortization Expense
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
 Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment
9.72
7.21
Amortization on intangible assets
0.10
0.05
Depreciation of right of use
55.55
39.32
 Total 
 65.37 
 46.58 
Note 39: Other Expenses
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Administrative Expenses
Short Term Lease
15.45
4.98
Rates And Taxes
4.62
6.23
Insurance
2.10
1.42
Repairs And Maintenance-Building
0.09
0.09
Repairs And Maintenance-Others
4.75
3.69
Royalty
 1.10 
 0.05 
Water & Electricity Charges
2.16
2.39
Vehicle Running And Maintenance
4.03
2.30
Travelling And Conveyance
10.73
2.58
Legal And Professional Charges
51.74
30.41
Printing And Stationery
2.20
1.83
Postage, Telephone & Courier
2.39
1.74
Donation
1.31
1.37
Auditors' Remuneration
0.64
0.58
Directors Sitting Fees
0.18
0.32
Bad Debts & Advances Written Off
10.00
0.79
Corporate Social Responsibility Expenses
0.27
0.78
Provision For Doubtful Debts, Deposits And Advances
27.35
4.40
Provision for diminution in value of investment
12.00
-
Miscellaneous Expenses
10.37
2.17
163.48
68.12
Less: Allocated to Projects
64.15
33.45
99.33
34.67
Selling Expenses
Business Promotion 
24.09 
10.65 
Commission
36.98
8.61
Advertisement and Publicity
10.56
12.80
71.63
32.06
Total
170.96 
66.73 
300 
Omaxe Limited
Note 40: Tax Expense
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Current income tax 
1.16
3.79
Earlier year tax adjustments
1.42
0.17
Deferred tax
(108.27)
(36.69)
Total
(105.69)
(32.73)
The major components of income tax expense and the reconciliation of expected tax expense based on the domestic effective 
tax rate of the group at 25.17% and the reported tax expense in statement of profit and loss are as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
Accounting profit/(loss) before tax
(456.77)
(194.38)
Applicable tax rate 
25.17%
25.17%
Computed tax expense
(114.96)
(48.92)
Tax expense comprises of:
Tax Impact of disallowable expenses
6.03
5.71
Tax adjustment on account of adjustment of brought forward losses
110.09
47.00
Current Tax (A)
1.16
3.79
Earlier year tax adjustments (B)
1.42
0.17
Deferred Tax Provisions
Decrease in deferred tax liability on account of Property, Plant and Equipment 
(0.99)
(1.98)
Decrease/ (Increase) in deferred tax assets on account of provisions, fair 
valuation of development income and others
(107.28)
(34.71)
Total Deferred Tax Provisions (C)
(108.27)
(36.69)
Tax expenses recognised in Statement of Profit & Loss (A+B+C) 
(105.69)
(32.73)
Effective tax rate
-
-
Note 41: Earnings Per Share
Particulars
Year ended 
31 March 2023
Year ended 
31 March 2022
Profit/(loss) attributable to equity shareholders (Rupees in Crore)
 (347.91) 
(159.53)
Weighted average number of equity shares
 182,900,540 
 182,900,540 
Nominal value per share
10
10
Earnings per equity share
Basic
(19.02)
(8.72)
Diluted
(19.02)
(8.72)
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 301 
Note 42: Contingent Liabilities and Commitments
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
 Particulars
As at 
 31 March 2023
As at 
 31 March 2022
I
Claims against the group not acknowledged as debts
(to the extent quantifiable)
 
79.68 
 
41.98 
II
Bank guarantees
 
 
 
In respect of the group
 168.59
 135.29
 
In respect of erstwhile subsidiary company 
 - 
 3.52 
III
Disputed tax amounts
 
 
 
Sales tax
 38.25 
 33.70 
 
Service tax
 52.44 
 52.35 
 
Income tax (Net of provision)
 351.29 
 346.95 
IV
Writ Petition filed by Income tax department against order of Settlement 
Commission before Delhi High Court
 Amount 
unascertainable 
 Amount 
unascertainable 
V
The group may be contingently liable to pay damages / interest in the process 
of execution of real estate and construction projects and for specific non-
performance of certain agreements, the amount of which cannot presently 
be ascertained
 Amount 
unascertainable 
 Amount 
unascertainable 
VI
Certain civil cases preferred against the group in respect of labour laws, 
specific performance of certain land agreements, etc. and disputed by the 
group
 Not Quantifiable 
 Not Quantifiable 
Note 43: Some of the balances of trade receivables, trade payables, loan/ advances given and financial and non financial assets 
and liabilities are subject to reconciliation and confirmation from respective parties. The balance of said trade receivables, 
trade payables, loan/ advances given and financial and non financial assets and liabilities are taken as shown by the books 
of accounts. The ultimate outcome of such reconciliation and confirmation cannot presently be determined, therefore, no 
provision for any liability that may result out of such reconciliation and confirmation has been made in the financial statement, 
the financial impact of which is unascertainable due to the reasons as stated above.
Note 44: The Income Tax Department has filed writ petition before Hon’ble Supreme Court against the order of Income tax 
settlement commission in earlier years for assessment year 2000-01 to 2006-07, which is pending for hearing. Pending final 
outcome of such petition filed, no provision of any potential liability has been made in the books of accounts, the amount of 
which cannot presently be ascertained. 
A demand of Rs. 23.82 Crores has been raised against the Group for A.Y. 2007-08 to 2017-18 on various accounts and the group 
has filed appeals before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal / petitions before the Hon’ble High Court against these demand. 
An amount of Rs. 23.07 Crores has been deposited by the group against this demand under dispute. Further the Income Tax 
Department has also filed necessary appeals/writ petitions/ SLP with appropriate authority against the relief given by various 
appellate authorities of Rs. 172.36 crores to the group. A further demand of Rs. 146.59 Crores has been raised against the 
Group for A.Y.s 2010-11 to 2018-19 on various accounts and the group have filed appeals before the CIT(A) against these 
demands and an amount of Rs. 22.03 Crores has been deposited by the group against these demands under dispute.
Based on the decision of various appellate authorities and the interpretations of relevant provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961, 
the group have been advised by the experts that the demand so raised is likely to be deleted.
Note 45: During the year ended 31 March, 2022, Omaxe Limited and its subsidiary companies was subjected to search under 
section 132 of the Income Tax Act 1961.Subsequent proceedings before appropriate authority are under way. Tax liability, if any 
arising out of such proceedings shall be accounted in the Financial Year in which demand is crystallised.
302 
Omaxe Limited
Note 46: LEASES
(a)	 Group as a leasee
	
Lease Contracts entered by the group majorly pertains to building taken on lease to conduct the business activities in 
ordinary course. 
	
The detail of right of use asset held by the group are as follows:
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars 
Addition for the year ended 
31 March 2023
(Net of deletion)
Net Carrying 
amount as at 31 
March 2023
Addition for the year 
ended 31 March 2022
(Net of deletion)
Net Carrying 
amount as at 31 
March 2022
Building 
22.55
46.70
0.56
79.70
	
The following are the amounts recognized in statement of profit and loss:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Depreciation on right of use asset
55.55
39.32
Interest on lease liability
7.57
8.06
Total
63.12
47.38
	
The following is breakup of Current and Non-Current Lease Liability as at 31 March, 2023
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at
31 March 2023
As at
31 March 2022
Current lease liability
69.15
33.04
Non-Current lease liability
15.40
87.43
Total
84.55
120.47
	
The following is movement in Lease Liability during the year ended 31 March, 2023
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year ended  31 
March 2023
Year ended  31 
March 2022
Balance at the beginning of the year
120.47
133.58
Addition during the year
25.20
21.99
Finance cost accrued during the year 
7.57
8.06
Deletion 
(2.65)
(21.43)
Payment of lease liability
(66.04)
(21.73)
Balance at the end of the year
84.55
120.47
	
The table below provides details regarding the Contractual Maturities of Lease Liability as at 31 March, 2023 on an 
undiscounted basis:
(Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at 31 
March 2023
As at 31 
March 2022
Less than one year
77.89
84.94
One to five year
18.50
48.16
More than five year
0.63
1.05
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 303 
(b)	 Group as a lessor
	
Lease arrangements where the group is lessor, lease rentals are recognized on straight line basis over the non-cancellable 
period. 
Note 47: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
The details of expenditure incurred on CSR are as under
(Rupees in Crore)
S. No.
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
a.
The Gross amount required to be spent by the group during the year 
as per Section 135 of Companies Act 2013 read with Schedule VIII
0.23
0.36
b.
Amount spent during the year on:
i Construction / acquisition of any assets
-
-
ii On purposes other than (i) above 
0.33
0.78
c.
Shortfall at the end of the year
-
-
d.
Total of previous years shortfall
-
-
e.
Reason for shortfall
NA
NA
f.
The breakup of expenses included in amount spent are as under 
Particulars
Environmental sustainability and ecological balance
0.12
0.00
Covid-19 Relief related activities
0.00
0.42
Vanvasi Raksha Pariwar Foundation
0.15
0.36
Omaxe Foundation
0.21
-
Total
0.48
0.78
Note 47.1: There are no unspent amounts requiring transfer to a fund specified in Schedule VII of Companies Act, 2013 within 
a period of six months of expiry of financial year in compliance with second proviso to Section 135 (5) of Companies Act, 2013.
Note 47.2: Contribution to Omaxe Foundation 0.06 Crore (PY Rs. Nil) a related party.
Note 47.3: In accordance with Circular No. 14/2021 date 25th August, 2021 in respect of Section 135 of Companies Act, the 
excess amount of CSR expenditure incurred by the Company during the Financial year are to be set off against the required 2% 
CSR expenditure up to immediately succeeding three financial years subject to compliance of conditions as stipulated under 
rule 7(3) of Companies (CSR Policy) Rule, 2014.
Details of excess CSR expenditure under Section 135(5) of the Act
(Rupees in Crore)
Balance excess 
spent as at 1 April 
2022
Amount required to 
be spent during the 
year
Amount spent 
during the year
Balance as at 31 
March 2023
Available for set 
off till Financial 
Year 2024-25
Available for set 
off till Financial 
Year 2025-26
0.42
0.23
0.48
0.67
0.42
0.25
(Rupees in Crore)
Balance excess spent 
as at 1 April 2021
Amount required to be 
spent during the year
Amount spent during 
the year
Balance as at 31 
March 2022
Available for set off till 
Financial Year 2024-25
-
0.36
0.78
0.42
0.42
304 
Omaxe Limited
Note 48: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
1)	 Post-Employment Obligations – Gratuity
	
The group provides gratuity for employees in India as per the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972. Employees who are in 
continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The amount of gratuity payable on retirement/termination 
is the employees last drawn basic salary per month computed proportionately for 15 days salary multiplied by the number 
of years of service. For the funded plan the group makes contributions to recognised funds in India. The group does not 
fully fund the liability and maintains a target level of funding to be maintained over a period of time based on estimations 
of expected gratuity payments.
	
The amounts recognised in the Financial Statement and the movements in the net defined benefit obligation over the 
year are as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
a.
Reconciliation of present value of defined benefit obligation and 
the fair value of plan assets
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Present value of obligation as at the end of the year
15.92
15.27
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
0.13
0.16
Net liability (asset) recognized in balance sheet
15.79
15.11
 (Rupees in Crore)
b.
Bifurcation of PBO at the end of year in current and non current
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Current liability
0.75 
0.96 
Non-current liability
15.04
14.15
Total
15.79
15.11
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
c.
Expected contribution for the next annual reporting period
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Service Cost
2.64
2.29
Net Interest Cost
1.16
1.08
Total
3.80
3.37
(Rupees in Crore)
d.
Changes in defined benefit obligation
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Present value obligation as at the beginning of the year
15.27
13.86
Acquisition adjustment (out)
-
-
Interest cost
1.09
0.98
Service cost
2.08
1.87
Benefits paid
(2.84)
(2.88)
Actuarial loss/(gain) on obligations
0.32
1.44
Present value obligation as at the end of the year
15.92
15.27
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 305 
(Rupees in Crore)
e.
Change in fair value of plan assets
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Fair value of plan assets as at the beginning of the year
0.16
0.10
Actual Return on plan assets
0.02
0.03
Employer Contribution
2.81
2.93
FMC
(0.02)
(0.02)
Benefits paid
(2.84)
(2.88)
Fair value of plan assets as at the end of the year
0.13
0.16
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
f.
Actuarial Gain/(Loss) on Plan Assets
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Interest income
(0.01)
(0.01)
Actuarial Income on Plan Asset
 0.02 
 0.03 
Actuarial gain /(loss) for the year on Asset
 0.01 
 0.02 
(Rupees in Crore)
g.
Amount recognized in the statement of profit and loss 
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Current service cost
2.08 
1.87 
Net Interest cost
1.08
0.97
Amount recognised in the statement of profit and loss 
3.16
2.84
 (Rupees in Crore)
h.
 Other Comprehensive Income
Year ended  
31 March 2023
Year ended  
31 March 2022
Net cumulative unrecognized actuarial gain/(loss) opening
(4.43)
(3.01)
Actuarial gain/(loss) for the year on PBO
(0.32)
(1.44)
Actuarial gain/(loss) for the year on Asset
0.01
0.02
Unrecognised actuarial gain/(loss) at the end of the year
(4.74)
(4.43)
i.
Economic assumptions
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Discount rate
7.36%
7.18%
Future salary increase
6.00%
6.00%
j.
Demographic Assumption
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Retirement Age (Years)
58
58
Mortality rates inclusive of provision for disability
IALM (2012-14) 
IALM (2012-14) 
Ages
Withdrawal Rate 
(%)
Withdrawal Rate 
(%)
 Up to 30 Years
3.00
3.00
 From 31 to 44 Years
2.00
2.00
 Above 44 Years
1.00
1.00
306 
Omaxe Limited
 (Rupees in Crore)
k.
Sensitivity analysis for gratuity liability
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Impact of the change in discount rate
 
 
Present value of obligation at the end of the year
 15.92
 15.27
a) Impact due to increase of 0.50 %
(0.87)
(0.84)
b) Impact due to decrease of 0.50 %
0.95
0.82
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
l.
Impact of the change in salary increase
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Present value of obligation at the end of the year
15.92
15.27
a) Impact due to increase of 0.50%
0.77
0.78
b) Impact due to decrease of 0.50 %
(0.74)
(0.75)
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
m.
Maturity Profile of Defined Benefit Obligation
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Year
 
 
0 to 1 year
0.88
1.12
1 to 2 year
 0.38 
 0.34 
2 to 3 year
0.79
0.38
3 to 4 year
0.66
0.74
4 to 5 year
0.42
0.64
5 to 6 year
0.70
0.38
6 Year onward
12.09
11.67
n.
The major categories of plan assets are as follows: 
(As Percentage of total Plan Assets)
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Funds Managed by Insurer
100%
100%
o. 	 Description of Risk Exposures:
	
Valuations are based on certain assumptions, which are dynamic in nature and vary over time. As such group is 
exposed to various risks as follow-
A.	 Salary Increases- Actual salary increases will increase the Plan’s liability. Increase in salary increase rate 
assumption in future valuations will also increase the liability.
B.	 Investment Risk – If Plan is funded then assets liabilities mismatch & actual investment return on assets lower 
than the discount rate assumed at the last valuation date can impact the liability.
C.	 Discount Rate: Reduction in discount rate in subsequent valuations can increase the plan’s liability.
D.	  Mortality & disability – Actual deaths & disability cases proving lower or higher than assumed in the valuation 
can impact the liabilities.
E.  Withdrawals – Actual withdrawals proving higher or lower than assumed withdrawals and change of withdrawal 
rates at subsequent valuations can impact Plan’s liability.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 307 
2)	 Leave Encashment
	
Provision for leave encashment in respect of un-availed leaves standing to the credit of employees is made on actuarial 
basis. The group does not maintain any fund to pay for leave encashment
3)		 Defined Contribution Plans
	
The group also has defined contribution plan i.e. contributions to provident fund in India for employees. The group makes 
contribution to statutory fund in accordance with Employees Provident Fund and Misc. Provision Act, 1952. This is post-
employment benefit and is in the nature of defined contribution plan. The contributions are made to registered provident 
fund administered by the government. The provident fund contribution charged to statement of profit & loss for the year 
ended 31 March, 2023 amount to Rs. 1.98 crore (PY Rs. 1.54 crore). 
Note 49: Auditor’s Remuneration
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Year Ended  
31 March 2023
Year Ended  
31 March 2022
As Auditor
Audit fees
0.43
0.37
Limited review fees
0.12 
0.12 
In other capacity
Tax audit fees
0.05
0.05
Certification charges
0.01
0.02
Out of pocket expenses
0.03
0.02
Total
 0.64 
 0.58 
Note 50: SEGMENT INFORMATION
The group’s business activities which are primarily real estate development and related activities falls within a single reportable 
segment as the management of the group views the entire business activities as real estate development. Accordingly, there 
are no additional disclosure to be furnished in accordance with the requirement of Ind AS 108 – Operating Segments with 
respect to single reportable segment. Further, the operations of the group is domiciled in India and therefore there are no 
reportable geographical segment.
Information about geographical segment:
(Rupees in Crore)
Revenue from operations
Year Ended 
31 March 2023
Year Ended 
31 March 2022
Within India
773.33
617.80
Outside India
-
-
Total
773.33
617.80
None of the non- current assets are held outside India.
No single customer represents 10% or more of group’s total revenue for the year ended 31 March, 2023.
Note 51: During the financial year ended 31 March 2023, Promoter/members of promoter group of the Company ie Mr. Rohtas 
Goel, Promoter & Chairman of the Company, and his brother Mr. Sunil Goel, M/s Sunil Goel HUF & Mrs. Seema Goel (SG 
Group) have entered into an understanding, subject to execution of relevant agreements etc, as may be required from time to 
time, for one-time full and final resolution of all/any disputes and differences among them (including but not limited to the 
disputes and differences related to shareholding, directorship, control, management, affairs and any other matters of like 
308 
Omaxe Limited
nature of Omaxe Group Companies and family matters); withdrawal/ quashing, as the case may be, and close all litigations 
filed against each-other and pending before any courts/ tribunals/ judicial & quasi-judicial authorities/ statutory authorities/ 
regulatory authorities/ financial institutions/ private institutions/ police and any other authority or body of a like nature; 
transfer of shareholding of SG Group in Omaxe Group Companies; and re-classification of SG Group from promoter and/or 
promoter group category of Omaxe Limited, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set out in Regulation 31A of SEBI LODR 
Regulations and other applicable laws and necessary approval(s).
This has no impact on the financial statements of the Group other than inter-se change in promoter holding upon effecting 
transfer of shares within promoter group pursuant to aforesaid settlement.
Note 52: Fair Value Measurements
(i)	 Financial Assets/Liabilities by category
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Note 
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Financial Asset
 
 
 
Non Current
 
 
 
At FVTPL
 
 
 
Investments in bonds
5
-
0.02
At FVTOCI
 
 
 
Investments in equity share instrument
5
12.12 
11.17 
At Amortised Cost
 
 
 
Investments in Bonds/Debentures
5
2.00
2.00
Other Financial Assets
6
103.91
64.92
 Current 
 
 
 
Trade Receivables
11
384.92
384.38
Cash & Cash Equivalents
12
191.74
126.55
Other bank balance
13
301.43
174.59
Loans
14
-
18.76
Other Financial Assets
15
246.30
245.69
Total Financial Assets
 
1,242.42
1,028.08
 
 
 
 
Financial Liabilities
 
 
 
At Amortised Cost
 
 
 
Non-current liabilities
 
 
 
Borrowings
19
762.28
516.74
Lease liabilities
20
15.40
87.43
Trade Payable
21
221.50
171.69
Other Financial Liabilities
22
154.20
144.04
Current Liabilities
 
 
 
Borrowings
25
260.06
491.21
Lease liabilities
26
69.15
33.04
Trade Payables
27
1,193.68
1,003.16
Other Financial Liabilities
28
1,077.08
1,035.48
Total Financial Liabilities
 
3,753.35
3,482.79
	
Investment in associates are measured at cost as per INDAS 27, ‘Separate financial statements’.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 309 
(ii)	 Fair Value Hierarchy
	
This section explains the judgments and estimates made in determining the fair values of the financial instruments that 
are recognised and measured at fair value. To provide an indication about the reliability of the inputs used in determining 
fair value, the group has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the Indian Accounting 
Standard. An explanation of each level follows underneath the table.
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
As at 31 March 2023
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
Investment in Bonds
-
-
-
-
Investment in Equity Shares
- 
12.12
-
12.12
 (Rupees in Crore)
As at 31 March 2022
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
Investment in Bonds
0.02
-
-
0.02
Investment in Equity Shares
 -
11.17 
-
11.17
(iii)	 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
 
 
As at  31 March 2023
As at  31 March 2022
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
Carrying Amount
Fair Value
Financial Assets
 
 
 
 
Non Current
 
 
 
 
Investments
2.00
2.00
2.00
2.00
Other Financial Assets
103.91
103.91
64.92
64.92
Current 
 
 
 
 
Trade Receivables
384.92
384.92
384.38
384.38
Cash & Cash Equivalents
191.74
191.74
126.55
126.55
Other bank balance
301.43
301.43
174.59
174.59
Loans
-
-
18.76
18.76
Other Financial Assets
246.30
246.30
245.69
245.69
Total
1,230.30
1,230.30
1,016.89
1,016.89
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Non-current liabilities
 
 
 
 
Borrowings
762.28
762.28
516.74
516.74
Lease liabilities
15.40
15.40
87.43
87.43
Trade Payable
221.50
221.50
171.69
171.69
Other Financial Liabilities
154.20
154.20
144.04
144.04
Current Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Borrowings
260.06
260.06
491.21
491.21
Lease liabilities
69.15
69.15
33.04
33.04
Trade Payables
1,193.68
1,193.68
1,003.16
1,003.16
Other Financial Liabilities
1,077.08
1,077.08
1,035.48
1,035.48
Total
3,753.35
3,753.35
3,482.79
3,482.79
	
For short term financial assets and liabilities carried at amortized cost, the carrying value is reasonable approximation of 
fair value.
310 
Omaxe Limited
Note 53: RISK MANAGEMENT
‘The Group’s activities expose it to market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. The management has the overall responsibility for 
the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework. This note explains the sources of risk which the 
entity is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk and the related impact in the financial statements.
Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to discharge its obligation to the Group. The Group’s exposure to credit risk is 
influenced mainly by cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and financial assets measured at amortised cost. The Group 
continuously monitors defaults of customers and other counterparties and incorporates this information into its credit risk 
controls.
Credit risk management
Credit risk rating
The Group assesses and manages credit risk of financial assets based on following categories arrived on the basis of 
assumptions, inputs and factors specific to the class of financial assets.
A: Low credit risk on financial reporting date
B: Moderate Credit Risk
C: High credit risk
The Group provides for expected credit loss based on the following:
Credit risk
Basis of categorization
Provision for expected credit loss
Low credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances 
and investment 
12 month expected credit loss
Moderate credit risk
Trade receivables and other financial assets
Life time expected credit loss or 12 month 
expected credit loss
Based on business environment in which the Group operates, a default on a financial asset is considered when the counter 
party fails to make payments within the agreed time period as per contract. Loss rates reflecting defaults are based on actual 
credit loss experience and considering differences between current and historical economic conditions.
Assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery, such as a debtor declaring bankruptcy or litigation 
decided against the Group. The Group continues to engage with parties whose balances are written off and attempts to enforce 
repayment. Recoveries made are recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Credit rating
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
A: Low credit risk
Cash and cash equivalents, other bank balances 
and investment
507.34
314.38
B: Moderate credit risk
Trade receivables and other financial assets
735.13
713.75
Concentration of trade receivables
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers spread across various states in India with no significant concentration 
of credit risk.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 311 
Credit risk exposure
Provision for expected credit losses
The Group provides for 12 month expected credit losses for following financial assets –
As at 31 March 2023
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Gross 
carrying amount
Expected credit 
losses
Carrying amount net of 
expected credit losses
Trade Receivables
385.70
0.78
384.92
Security Deposits
50.97
1.80
49.17
Loans and Advances
350.32
51.23
299.09
Other Receivables
7.80
5.85
1.95
Total
794.79
59.66
735.13
As at 31 March 2022
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Gross 
carrying amount
Expected credit 
losses
Carrying amount net of 
expected credit losses
Trade Receivables
385.16
0.78
384.38
Security Deposits
43.17
1.80
41.37
Loans and Advances
310.05
25.17
284.88
Other receivables
7.80
4.68
3.12
Total
746.18
32.43
713.75
The Group considers provision for lifetime expected credit loss for trade receivables, loans and advances given. Given the 
nature of business operations, the Group’s receivables from real estate business has little history of losses as transfer of legal 
title of properties sold is generally passed on to the customer, once the Group receives the entire consideration. Advances 
are given for purchase of land and for other goods and services. Therefore trade receivables and advances given have been 
considered as moderate credit risk financial assets. 
Reconciliation of loss provision – lifetime expected credit losses
	
(Rupees in Crore)
Reconciliation of loss allowance
Trade receivables
Security 
Deposits
Loans and 
Advances
Other Receivable
Loss allowance as on 01 April 2021
0.78
1.80
21.56
3.51
Impairment loss recognised/
(reversed) during the year
-
-
3.61
1.17
Loss allowance as on 31 March 2022
0.78
1.80
25.17
4.68
Impairment loss recognised/
(reversed) during the year
-
-
26.06
1.17
Loss allowance as on 31 March 2023 
0.78
1.80
51.23
5.85
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities 
that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure as far as 
possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they are due.
Management monitors rolling forecasts of the liquidity position and cash and cash equivalents on the basis of expected cash 
flows. The Group takes into account the liquidity of the market in which the entity operates.
312 
Omaxe Limited
Maturities of financial liabilities
The tables below analyse the financial liabilities into relevant maturity pattern based on their contractual maturities.
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Less than
 1 year
1 - 2 years
2 - 3 
years
3 - 6 years
More than 
6 years
Total
Carrying 
Amount
As at 31 March 2023
Non-Current borrowings
246.32
565.72
44.34
52.73
550.00
1,459.11
1,006.01
Current borrowings
16.33
-
-
-
-
16.33
16.33
Trade Payables
1,193.68
147.86
73.64
-
-
1,415.18
1,415.18
Other Financial Liabilities
1,123.39
132.43
16.54
27.61
51.20
1,351.17
1,315.83
Total
2,579.72
846.01
134.52
80.34
601.20
4,241.79
3,753.35
As at 31 March 2022
Non-Current borrowings
417.16
285.29
113.33
33.76
550.00
1,399.54
928.05
Current borrowings
79.90
-
-
-
-
79.90
79.90
Trade Payables
1,003.16
107.56
50.31
13.82
-
1,174.85
1,174.85
Other Financial Liabilities
1,120.34
116.06
28.43
25.44
24.93
1,315.20
1,299.99
Total
2,620.56
508.91
192.07
73.02
574.93
3,969.49
3,482.79
Market risk
Interest Rate risk
The Group’s policy is to minimise interest rate cash flow risk exposures on long-term financing. As At 31st March the Group is 
exposed to changes in market interest rates through bank borrowings at variable interest rates. Other borrowings are at fixed 
interest rates.
Group’s exposure to interest rate risk on borrowings is as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  
31 March 2023
As at  
31 March 2022
Variable rate
412.33 
823.42
Fixed rate
543.68
125.53
Total
956.01
948.95
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of profit and equity to a possible change in interest rates of +/- 1% (31 March 
2023: +/- 1%; 31 March 2022: +/- 1%). These changes are considered to be reasonably possible based on observation of 
current market conditions. The calculations are based on a change in the average market interest rate for each period, and 
the financial instruments held at each reporting date that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. All other variables are 
held constant. 
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
Profit for the year 
+1%
Profit for the year 
-1%
31 March 2023
5.94
(5.94)
31 March 2022
7.48
(7.48)
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 313 
Note 54: Capital Management Policies
(a)	 Capital Management
	
The Group’s capital management objectives are to ensure the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern as well as to 
provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk.
	
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the carrying amount of equity plus its subordinated loan, less cash and cash 
equivalents as presented on the face of the statement of financial position and cash flow hedges recognised in other 
comprehensive income.
	
‘The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and 
the risk characteristics of the underlying assets. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust 
the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. The amounts managed 
as capital by the group are summarised as follows:
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
As at  31 
March 2023
As at  31 
March 2022
Long term borrowings 
1,006.01
928.05
Short term borrowings 
16.33
79.90
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
(191.74)
(126.55)
Net debt 
830.60
881.40
Total equity 
898.21
1,244.96
Net debt to equity ratio 
0.92 
0.71 
(b)	 Dividends
	
 (Rupees in Crore)
Particulars
For the year ended 
31 March 2023
For the year ended 
31 March 2022
(i) Equity and Preference shares 
 
 
Final dividend on equity shares paid during the year
-
-
Final dividend on preference shares paid during the year
-
-
	
The Board of Directors of the Company in the meeting held on 26 May, 2023 have recommended the payment of dividend 
for financial year ended 31 March, 2023 on 0.1% Non-Cumulative, Non-Convertible, Redeemable Preference Share. This 
proposed dividend is subject to approval of shareholders in the ensuing annual general meeting.
314 
Omaxe Limited
Note 55: Related parties disclosures
A.	 Related parties are classified as :
S. No.
Name of Company
I Holding Company
1
Guild Builders Private Limited
II Fellow Subsidiary companies
1
Dream Home Developers Private Limited
2
Hansa Properties Private Limited
III Associates Company
1
Capital Redevelopment Private Limited
2
FBD Real Grow Private Limited
3
Omaxe Be Together Project Developers Private Limited (Formerlly known as Be Together Vrindavan 
Developers Private Limited) (w.e.f. 29.12.2022)
4
Parkash Omaxe Amusement Park Private Limited
5
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP (up to 20.05.2022)
IV Entities over which key managerial personnel or their relatives exercises significant influence
1
Affordable India Housing Finance Limited
2
Ajitesh Consultants Private Limited (w.e.f. 28.10.2022)
3
Asian Fast Food Services Private Limited
4
Axeom Advertising Solutions Limited
5
B D Agarwal Securities Private Limited
6
Be Together Developers Private Limited 
7
Bharatbhoomi Township Limited
8
Big Bulls Retails Private Limited (w.e.f. 04.04.2022)
9
Blossom Buildhome Private Limited
10
Buildwell Builders Private Limited
11
Dwarkadish Land and Farms Private Limited
12
Examo Estate Management Private Limited
13
Inesh Buildcon Private Limited
14
ISG Brands Private Limited
15
Jai Bhoomi Projects Limited
16
Kahn Retails Private Limited (w.e.f. 29.06.2022)
17
Khushiyon Ka Ghar Private Limited (w.e.f. 13.03.2023)
18
LB Circle India Private Limited
19
M/s Rohtas Goel (HUF)
20
Maa Omwati Education Trust
21
Magppie Living Private Limited
22
Next10 Buildtech Private Limited
23
Next10 Land Developers Private Limited
24
Next10 Realbuild Private Limited
25
Next10 Redevelopment Private Limited
26
NJS Developers Private Limited
27
OH-Max Entertainment Private Limited
28
Omaxe Foundation (Regd.)
29
Omaxe Global Trading Corporation Private Limited
30
Omaxe Housing And Commercial Projects Limited
31
Omaxe Orissa Developers Limited
32
Omaxe Pragati Maidan Exhibition Limited
33
Omaxe Retail Limited
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 315 
S. No.
Name of Company
34
Radhika Buildwell Private Limited
35
Supplified Technologies Private Limited
36
Vingar Developers Private Limited
37
VSG Builders Private Limited
38
Goel Brothers
39
Goel Construction
40
Numax Realcon Private Limited
V Key Managerial Personnel/Directors/CEO
1
Mr. Rohtas Goel-Chairman & Whole Time Director
2
Mr. Mohit Goel-Managing Director 
3
Mr. Vinit Goyal-Whole Time Director 
4
Mr. Atul Banshal-Director Finance
5
Mr. Manoj Kumar Dua-Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f. 15.11.2022)
6
Mr. Arun Kumar Pandey-Chief Financial Officer (Up to 14.11.2022)
7
Mr. Vikas Khandelwal-Company Secretary (w.e.f. 14.02.2023)
8
Mr. Navin Jain-Company Secretary (Up to 13.02.2023)
VI Directors other than KMP
1
Mr. Gurnam Singh-Independent Director
2
Mr. Shridhar Rao-Independent Director
3
Ms. Nishal Jain-Independent Director
VII Relatives of Key Managerial Personnel
1
Mr. Jatin Goel
2
Mr. J B Goel
3
Mr. Sunil Goel
B.	 Summary of related parties transactions are as under:
(Rupees in Crore)
S. No.
Nature of Transactions
Year
Holding /Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Limited 
Liability 
Partnership/ 
Associate
Entities over which 
key managerial 
personnel and / 
or their relatives 
exercise significant 
influence
Key manage-
rial person-
nel/ Relative
Total
1
Lease rent received
2022-23
0.02
-
-
-
0.02
2021-22
0.02
-
-
-
0.02
2
Interest on Preference 
Shares
2022-23
14.48
-
-
-
14.48
2021-22
12.38
-
-
-
12.38
3
Remuneration
2022-23
-
-
-
10.47
10.47
2021-22
-
-
-
8.46
8.46
4
Royalty paid
2022-23
-
-
-
1.11
1.11
2021-22
-
-
-
0.05
0.05
5
Directors sitting fees
2022-23
-
-
-
0.18
0.18
2021-22
-
-
-
0.32
0.32
6
Lease rent paid
2022-23
0.18
-
0.42
-
0.60
2021-22
0.18
-
0.42
-
0.60
7
Donation made
2022-23
-
-
0.20
-
0.20
2021-22
-
-
0.31
-
0.31
8
Advance received 
against booking of 
property
2022-23
-
-
-
29.60
29.60
2021-22
-
-
-
-
-
316 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Nature of Transactions
Year
Holding /Fellow 
Subsidiaries
Limited 
Liability 
Partnership/ 
Associate
Entities over which 
key managerial 
personnel and / 
or their relatives 
exercise significant 
influence
Key manage-
rial person-
nel/ Relative
Total
9
Investments Made
2022-23
-
0.00
-
-
0.00
2021-22
-
-
-
-
-
10
Advance Paid
2022-23
11.51
5.42
3.04
-
19.97
2021-22
0.31
-
0.30
-
0.61
11
Advances received/
refund
2022-23
6.96
10.69
75.83
-
93.48
2021-22
0.57
0.00
0.30
-
0.87
12
Loan paid
2022-23
2.05
-
-
2.90
4.95
2021-22
0.00
-
-
-
0.00
 
Closing balances
-
1
Loans & advances 
recoverable
2022-23
-
-
-
-
-
2021-22
-
4.33
-
-
4.33
2
Trade payable
2022-23
-
-
0.64
-
0.64
2021-22
-
-
0.65
-
0.65
3
Advances/balance 
outstanding
2022-23
48.80
11.62
73.33
31.55
165.30
2021-22
53.35
2.74
0.42
6.62
63.13
4
Preference Shares 
Capital balance 
outstanding
2022-23
99.75
-
-
-
99.75
2021-22
85.27
-
-
-
85.27
5
Loans received 
outstanding
2022-23
13.86
-
1.33
0.02
15.21
2021-22
15.91
-
1.48
2.92
20.31
6
Lease security payable
2022-23
0.01
-
-
-
0.01
2021-22
0.01
-
-
-
0.01
	
# Expenses towards gratuity and leave encashment provisions are determined actuarially on an overall group basis at the 
end of each year and accordingly have not been considered in the above information.
C.	 Particulars of related party transactions during the year:
(Rupees in Crore)
S. No.
Particulars
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
1
Lease rent received
 
 
 
 
Guild Builder Private Limited
Holding Company
0.01
0.01
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
0.01
0.01
 
 
2
Interest on Preference Shares
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
14.48
12.38
 
 
3
Remuneration
 
Rohtas Goel
Key managerial personnel
4.80
4.80
 
Mohit Goel
Key managerial personnel
1.65
1.44
 
Vinit Goyal
Key managerial personnel
0.50
0.48
 
Atul Banshal
Key managerial personnel
1.10
0.11
 
Arun kumar Pandey (up to 14.11.2022)
Key managerial personnel
0.29
0.47
 
Manoj Kumar Dua (w.e.f.15.11.2022)
Key managerial personnel
0.36
-
 
Navin Jain (up to 13.02.2023)
Key managerial personnel
0.40
0.47
 
Vikas Khandelwal (w.e.f.14.02.2023)
Key managerial personnel
0.11
-
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 317 
S. No.
Particulars
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Jatin Goel
Relatives of key managerial personnel
1.26
0.69
 
 
4
Royalty paid
 
Rohtas Goel
Key managerial personnel
1.11
0.05
 
 
5
Directors sitting fees
 
Gurnam Singh
Directors other than KMP
0.06
0.12
 
Nishal Jain 
Directors other than KMP
0.06
0.12
 
Shridhar Rao 
Directors other than KMP
0.06
0.08
 
 
6
Lease rent paid
 
Hansa Properties Private Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
0.18
0.18
 
Buildwell Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.18
0.18
 
B D Agarwal Securities Private Limited Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.24
0.24
 
 
7
Donation made
 
Omaxe Foundation (Regd)
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.20
0.31
 
 
8
Advance received against booking of 
property
 
Goel Brothers
Relatives of key managerial personnel
16.87
-
 
Goel Construction
Relatives of key managerial personnel
9.98
-
 
Numax Realcon Private Limited
Relatives of key managerial personnel
2.75
-
 
 
9
Investments Made
 
Omaxe Be Together Project Developers 
Private Limited
Associate Company
0.00
-
 
 
10
Advance Paid
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
9.21
0.31
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiaries
2.30
-
 
Fbd Realgrow Private Limited
Associate Company
4.81
-
Omaxe Be Together Project Developers 
Private Limited
Associate Company
0.61
-
 
Axeom Advertising Solutions Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
1.90
-
 
OH-Max Entertainment Private Limited Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
1.00
0.29
 
Blossom Buildhome Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.00
-
 
Buildwell Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
-
0.01
318 
Omaxe Limited
S. No.
Particulars
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
NJS Developers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.11
-
 
OH-Max Entertainment Private Limited Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.00
-
 
Omaxe Foundation (Regd.)
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.02
-
 
Magppie Living Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.01
-
 
 
11
Advances received/refund
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
2.66
0.57
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiaries
4.30
-
 
Fbd Realgrow Private Limited
Associate Company
10.08
0.00
Omaxe Be Together Project Developers 
Private Limited
Associate Company
0.61
-
 
Be Together Developers Private 
Limited 
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
2.43
-
 
Axeom Advertising Solutions Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
1.90
-
 
Oh-Max Entertainment Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
1.00
0.29
 
Buildwell Builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
-
0.01
 
Ajitesh Consultants Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
70.50
-
 
 
12
Loan paid
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
2.05
0.00
 
Rohtas Goel
Key managerial personnel
2.90
-
 
 
 
Closing balances
1
Loans & advances recoverable
 
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP (up to 
20.05.2022)
Limited Liability Partnership.
-
4.33
 
FBD Realgrow Private Limited
Associate Company
-
0.00
2
Trade payable
 
Magppie Living Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.64
0.65
 
 
3
Advances/balance outstanding
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
43.66
50.21
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 319 
S. No.
Particulars
Relationship
2022-2023
2021-2022
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
5.14
3.14
 
FBD Realgrow Private Limited
Associate Company
11.62
2.74
 
Omaxe Global Trading Corporation 
Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.40
0.40
 
OH-Max Entertainment Private Limited Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
-
0.00
 
Omaxe Foundation (Regd.)
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
-
0.02
 
Be Together Developers Private 
Limited 
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
2.43
-
 
Ajitesh Consultants Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and/or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
70.50
-
 
Rohtas Goel
Key managerial personnel
1.44
6.16
 
Mohit Goel 
Key managerial personnel
0.06
0.11
 
Atul Banshal
Key managerial personnel
0.09
0.08
 
Vinit Goyal
Key managerial personnel
0.04
0.03
 
Arun Kumar Pandey 
Key managerial personnel
-
0.05
 
Navin Jain 
Key managerial personnel
-
0.04
 
Vikas Khandelwal 
Key Managerial Person
0.07
-
 
Manoj Kumar Dua
Key Managerial Person
0.05
-
 
Jatin Goel
Relatives of key managerial personnel
0.08
0.03
 
J.B. Goel
Relatives of key managerial personnel
0.12
0.12
 
Goel Brothers
Relatives of key managerial personnel
16.87
-
 
Goel Construction
Relatives of key managerial personnel
9.98
-
 
Numax Realcon Private Limited
Relatives of key managerial personnel
2.75
-
 
 
4
Preference Shares Capital balance 
outstanding
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
99.75
85.27
 
 
5
Loans received outstanding
 
Guild Builders Private Limited
Holding Company
13.86
13.86
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
-
2.05
 
NJS Developers Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
1.19
1.34
 
VSG builders Private Limited
Entities over which key managerial 
personnel and / or their relatives 
exercise significant influence
0.14
0.14
 
Rohtas Goel
Key managerial personnel
-
2.90
 
Sunil Goel
Relatives of key managerial personnel
0.02
0.02
 
 
6
Lease security payable
 
Guild Builder Private Limited
Holding Company
0.01
0.01
 
Dream Home Developers Private 
Limited
Fellow Subsidiary
0.00
0.00
320 
Omaxe Limited
Note 56: GROUP INFORMATION
Information about subsidiaries/entities consolidated
The consolidated financial statements of the Group include entities listed in the table below:
S. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
Incorporation
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
% of shareholding
A.
Subsidiaries of Omaxe Limited
 
 
 
1
Anjaniputra Builders Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
2
Aashna Realcon Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.01.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
3
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.01.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
4
Arman Builders Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
5
Atulah Contractors and Constructions Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
6
Ayush Landcon Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.01.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
7
Blackbull Retails Private Limited (w.e.f. 16.06.2022)
India
100.00 
 - 
8
Chapal Buildhome Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.01.2022)
India
 100.00 
100.00 
9
Colors Real Estate Private Limited (w.e.f. 05.08.2022)
India
100.00 
 - 
10
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.01.2022)
India
100.00 
 100.00 
11
Dreamze New Faridabad Developers LLP
India
 99.99 
74.98 
12
Ekansh Buildtech Private Limited
India
100.00 
 100.00 
13
Giant Dragon Mart Private Limited
India
 50.00 
 50.00 
14
Golden Glades Builders Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
15
Green Planet Colonisers Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
16
Hamara Ghar Constructions and Developers Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
17
Hartal Builders and Developers Private Limited
India
 75.00 
 75.00 
18
Jagdamba Contractors and Builders Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
19
JKB Constructions Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
20
JRS Projects Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
21
Kamini Builders And Promoters Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
22
Kashish Buildtech Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
23
Kavya Buildtech Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
24
Landlord Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
25
Link Infrastructure and Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
26
Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.08.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
27
Mehboob Builders Private Limited
India
100.00 
 100.00 
28
Mehtab Infratech Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
29
Monarch Villas Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
30
MR Real Estate Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
31
National Affordable Housing Limited 
India
100.00 
100.00 
32
Navratan Techbuild Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
33
Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
34
Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
35
Nexten Infra Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
36
Nexten Real Growth Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
37
Nexten Super Growth Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
38
Oasis Township Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
39
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
40
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
41
Omaxe Entertainment Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
42
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills Developers Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
43
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
44
Omaxe Heritage Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
45
Omaxe Hitech Infrastructure Company Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
46
Omaxe Housing and Developers Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 321 
S. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
Incorporation
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
47
Omaxe Housing And Infrastructure Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
48
Omaxe Indore Developers Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
49
Omaxe Infotech City Developers Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
50
Omaxe Infrastructure Limited
India
 100.00 
100.00 
51
Omaxe International Bazaar Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
52
Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private Limited (w.e.f. 
22.07.2022)
India
 100.00 
 - 
53
Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
54
Omaxe New Faridabad Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
55
Omaxe Next Private Limited (w.e.f. 21.06.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
56
Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
57
Omaxe Power Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
58
Omaxe Rajasthan SEZ Developers Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
59
Omaxe World Street Private Limited
India
75.00 
75.00 
60
Omtech Infrastructure and Construction Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
61
Pam Developers (India) Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
62
Panchi Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
63
PP Devcon Private Limited
India
75.00 
75.00 
64
Primordial Buildcon Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
65
Rivaj Infratech Private Limited
India
51.00 
51.00 
66
Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited
UAE
100.00 
100.00 
67
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.01.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
68
Sarva Buildtech Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.01.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
69
Shamba Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
70
Shikhar Landcon Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
71
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP (w.e.f. 21.05.2022)
India
99.99 
- 
72
Silver Peak Township Private Limited (w.e.f. 03.01.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
73
Sri Balaji Green Heights Private Limited
India
75.00 
75.00 
74
Worldstreet Sports Centre Limited (w.e.f. 02.06.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
75
Zodiac Housing and Infrastructure Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
B.
Subsidiaries of Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private 
Limited
 
 
 
1
Aadhira Developers Private Limited (upto 17.10.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
2
Aashna Realcon Private Limited (upto 02.01.2022)
India
- 
100.00 
3
Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited (upto 02.01.2022)
India
- 
100.00 
4
Ashray Infrabuild Private Limited (upto 13.09.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
5
Ayush Landcon Private Limited (upto 02.01.2022)
India
- 
100.00 
6
Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
7
Caspian Realtors Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
8
Chapal Buildhome Private Limited (upto 02.01.2022)
India
- 
100.00 
9
Daman Builders Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
10
Damodar Infratech Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
11
Davesh Technobuild Private Limited (upto 13.09.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
12
Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited (upto 02.01.2022)
India
- 
100.00 
13
Dinkar Realcon Private Limited (upto 13.09.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
14
Ekapad Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
15
Hemang Buildcon Private Limited (upto 17.10.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
16
Hiresh Builders Private Limited (upto 17.10.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
17
Manit Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
18
NRI City Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
19
Rupesh Infratech Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
322 
Omaxe Limited
S. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
Incorporation
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
20
Sanvim Developers Private Limited (upto 17.10.2022)
India
100.00 
100.00 
21
Sarthak Landcon Private Limited (upto 02.01.2022)
India
- 
100.00 
22
Sarva Buildtech Private Limited (upto 02.01.2022)
India
- 
100.00 
23
Shubh Bhumi Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
24
Silver Peak Township Private Limited (upto 02.01.2022)
India
- 
100.00 
C.
Subsidiaries of Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
 
 
 
1
Aarzoo Technobuild Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
2
Abheek Builders Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
3
Radiance Housing and Properties Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
D.
Subsidiaries of Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
 
 
 
1
Ashok Infrabuild Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
2
Glacier Agro Foods Products Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
3
Tejpal Infra Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
E.
Subsidiary of Navratan Tech Build Private Limited
 
 
 
1
S N Realtors Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
F.
Subsidiaries Omaxe Buildhome Limited
 
 
 
1
Oasis Suncity Realtors Private Limited
India
 100.00 
 100.00 
2
Reliable Manpower Solutions Limited
India
99.18 
99.18 
3
RPS Suncity Promoters and Developers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
G.
Subsidiary of Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills Developers Limited
 
 
 
1
Satvik Hitech Builders Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
H.
Subsidiary of Pam Developers (India) Private Limited
 
 
 
1
Omaxe India Trade Centre Private Limited
India
90.00 
90.00 
I.
Subsidiaries of Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited
 
 
 
1
Aviral Colonizers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
2
Satkar Colonisers Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
3
Utkrisht Real Estate and Associates Private Limited
India
100.00 
100.00 
J.
Subsidiaries of Omaxe World Street Private Limited
 
 
 
1
Abhas Realcon Private Limited
India
75.00 
75.00 
2
Adesh Realcon Private Limited
India
75.00 
75.00 
3
Anveshan Builders Private Limited
India
75.00 
75.00 
4
Navadip Developers Private Limited
India
75.00 
75.00 
5
Salvatore Infra Buildtech Limited (w.e.f. 18.03.2023)
India
75.00 
- 
K.
Subsidiaries of MR Real Estate Private Limited
 
 
 
1
Estatelance Developers Private Limited (w.e.f. 09.09.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
L.
Subsidiaries of Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private 
Limited
 
 
 
1
Aadhira Developers Private Limited (w.e.f. 18.10.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
2
Ashray Infrabuild Private Limited (w.e.f. 14.09.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
3
Estatelance Real Estate Private Limited (w.e.f. 08.12.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
4
Davesh Technobuild Private Limited (w.e.f. 14.09.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
5
Dinkar Realcon Private Limited (w.e.f. 14.09.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
6
Hemang Buildcon Private Limited (w.e.f. 18.10.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
7
Hiresh Builders Private Limited (w.e.f. 18.10.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
8
Sanvim Developers Private Limited (w.e.f. 18.10.2022)
India
100.00 
- 
M
Associates
 
 
 
1
Capital Redevelopment Private Limited
India
24.00 
24.00 
2
FBD Real Grow Private Limited
India
25.00 
25.00 
3
Omaxe Be Together Project Developers Private Limited 
(Formerlly known as Be Together Vrindavan Developers Private 
Limited) (w.e.f. 29.12.2022)
India
 30.00 
 - 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 323 
S. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
Incorporation
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
4
Parkash Omaxe Amusement Park Private Limited 
India
50.00
50.00
5
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP (upto 20.05.2022)
India
49.99 
49.99
N
Other Entities under significant control
 
 
 
1
Aanchal Infrabuild Private Limited
India
 
 
2
Abhay Technobuild Private Limited
India
 
 
3
Abhiman Buildtech Private Limited
India
 
 
4
Absolute Infrastructure Private Limited
India
 
 
5
Adil Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
6
Advaita Properties Private Limited
India
 
 
7
Advay Properties Private Limited
India
 
 
8
Agasthya Properties Private Limited
India
 
 
9
Alpesh Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
10
Amber Infrabuild Private Limited
India
 
 
11
Amit Jain Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
12
Amod Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
13
Ananddeep Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
14
Anant Realcon Private Limited
India
 
 
15
Aneesh Buildtech Private Limited
India
 
 
16
Apoorva Infrabuild Private Limited
India
 
 
17
Arhant Infrabuild Private Limited
India
 
 
18
Aric Infrabuild Private Limited
India
 
 
19
Arjit Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
20
Art Balcony Private Limited
India
 
 
21
Avindra Estate Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
22
Avval Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
23
Balesh Technobuild Private Limited
India
 
 
24
Bali Buildtech Private Limited
India
 
 
25
Bandhu Buildtech Private Limited
India
 
 
26
Beautiful Landbase Private Limited
India
 
 
27
Bhargav Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
28
Bhavesh Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
29
Chaitanya Realcon Private Limited
India
 
 
30
Chetan Infrabuild Private Limited
India
 
 
31
Chirag Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
32
Cress Propbuild Private Limited
India
 
 
33
Daksh Township Private Limited
India
 
 
34
Deejit Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
35
Deepaalay Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
36
Deepal Township Private Limited
India
 
 
37
Deepsing Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
38
Desire Housing and Construction Private Limited
India
 
 
39
Devgar Estate Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
40
Distinctive Infrastructure And Construction Private Limited
India
 
 
41
Dream Technobuild Private Limited
India
 
 
42
Dream Towers Private Limited
India
 
 
43
DVM Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
44
Excellent Apartments Private Limited
India
 
 
45
Fast Track Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
46
Garg and Goel Estate Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
47
Garg Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
48
Garvish Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
324 
Omaxe Limited
S. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
Incorporation
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
49
Gaurang Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
50
Geet Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
51
Girish Buildwell Private Limited
India
 
 
52
Goel Isha Colonisers Private Limited
India
 
 
53
Green Earth Promoters Private Limited
India
 
 
54
Gurmeet Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
55
Hina Technobuild Private Limited
India
 
 
56
Indrasan Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
57
Istuti Realcon Private Limited
India
 
 
58
Jagat Buildtech Private Limited
India
 
 
59
Jaidev Colonisers Private Limited
India
 
 
60
Jishnu Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
61
Jitenjay Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
62
Jivish Colonisers Private Limited
India
 
 
63
JSM Enterprises Private Limited
India
 
 
64
Kalp Buildtech Private Limited
India
 
 
65
Kanak Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
66
Kartik Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
67
KBM Constructions Private Limited
India
 
 
68
Kishordeep Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
69
Krishan Kripa Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
70
Laldeep Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
71
Lavanya Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
72
Lifestyle Township Private Limited
India
 
 
73
Lohith Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
74
Luxury Township Private Limited
India
 
 
75
Mangal Bhumi Properties Private Limited
India
 
 
76
Mangla Villas Private Limited
India
 
 
77
Mankish Colonisers Private Limited
India
 
 
78
Manwal Colonisers Private Limited
India
 
 
79
Meghmala Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
80
Mihir Buildwell Private Limited
India
 
 
81
Milestone Township Private Limited
India
 
 
82
Motto Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
83
Nakul Technobuild Private Limited
India
 
 
84
Naptune Technobuild Projects Private Limited
India
 
 
85
Natraj Colonisers Private Limited
India
 
 
86
Naveenraj Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
87
Neegar Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
88
New Horizons Township Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
89
Omaxe Affordable Homes Private Limited
India
 
 
90
Omaxe Hotels Limited
India
 
 
91
Omaxe Realtors Limited
India
 
 
92
P N Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
93
Parjit Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
94
Prabal Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
95
Praveen Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
96
Praveen Mehta Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
97
PSJ Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
98
Puru Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
99
Ramniya Estate Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 325 
S. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
Country of 
Incorporation
Year ended 
March 31, 2023
Year ended 
March 31, 2022
100
Raveendeep Colonisers Private Limited
India
 
 
101
Rocky Valley Resorts Private Limited
India
 
 
102
Sandeep Landcon Private Limited
India
 
 
103
Sandeep Township Private Limited
India
 
 
104
Sangupt Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
105
Sanjit Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
106
Sankalp Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
107
Sanya Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
108
Savim Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
109
Sentinent Properties Private Limited
India
 
 
110
Shalin Buildwell Private Limited
India
 
 
111
Shantiniwas Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
112
Shardul Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
113
Shashank Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
114
Shivshakti Realbuild Private Limited
India
 
 
115
Shreyas Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
116
Singdeep Estate Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
117
Smart Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
118
Snehal Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
119
SNJ Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
120
Source Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
121
Spike Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
122
Starex Projects Private Limited
India
 
 
123
Starshine Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
124
Stepping Stone Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
125
Stronghold Properties Private Limited
India
 
 
126
Subodh Buildwell Private Limited
India
 
 
127
Sumedha Builders Private Limited
India
 
 
128
Sunrise Township Private Limited
India
 
 
129
Sunview Township Private Limited
India
 
 
130
Swapan Sunder Township Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
131
Swapnil Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
132
Swarg Sukh Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
133
Taru Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
134
True Dreams Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
135
True Estate Build Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
136
True Gem Tech Developers Private Limited
India
 
 
137
Tushar Landcon Private Limited
India
 
 
138
Udal Properties Private Limited
India
 
 
139
Umang Buildcon Private Limited
India
 
 
140
Vaibhav Technobuild Private Limited
India
 
 
141
Vaman Buildhome Private Limited
India
 
 
142
Veenish Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
143
VGSG Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
144
Vimsan Realtors Private Limited
India
 
 
145
Vineera Colonisers Private Limited
India
 
 
326 
Omaxe Limited
Note 57: Additional information, as required under Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013, of the enterprises consolidated 
as subsidiaries / entities consolidated:
S. 
No.
Name of Enterprises
Net Assets i.e total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
 
Parent
 
 
 
 
 
 Omaxe Limited 
112.61
1,014.41
55.53
(193.19)
(27.08)
(0.35)
55.83
(193.54)
 
 Subsidiaries-Indian 
1
 Omaxe Buildhome Limited 
15.74
141.80
1.80
(6.27)
(0.05)
(0.00)
1.81
(6.27)
2
 Omaxe Chandigarh Extension Developers 
Private Limited 
(16.97)
(152.91)
16.11
(56.05)
52.59
0.68
15.98
(55.37)
3
 Garv Buildtech Private Limited 
0.39
3.53
(0.36)
1.26
10.22
0.13
(0.40)
1.39
4
 Pancham Realcon Private Limited 
0.37
3.35
0.19
(0.66)
(1.43)
(0.02)
0.20
(0.68)
5
 Omaxe World Street Private Limited 
(3.17)
(28.57)
7.74
(26.94)
33.96
0.44
7.65
(26.50)
6
 Pam Developers (India) Private Limited 
(6.69)
(60.27)
11.05
(38.46)
2.89
0.04
11.08
(38.42)
7
 Navratan Techbuild Private Limited 
(2.71)
(24.41)
4.40
(15.30)
(0.71)
(0.01)
4.42
(15.31)
8
 Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills Developers 
Limited 
(0.52)
(4.64)
1.15
(4.01)
(1.29)
(0.02)
1.16
(4.03)
9
 Mr Real Estate Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
10
 Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private 
Limited 
(0.09)
(0.81)
0.23
(0.81)
-
-
0.23
(0.81)
11
 Omaxe Buildwell Limited 
1.23
11.12
2.72
(9.47)
(0.74)
(0.01)
2.74
(9.48)
12
 Omaxe Housing and Developers Limited 
0.73
6.57
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
13
 Omaxe Infrastructure Limited 
0.76
6.82
(0.01)
0.02
-
-
(0.01)
0.02
14
 Rivaj Infratech Private Limited 
(0.02)
(0.15)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
15
 Jagdamba Contractors and Builders 
Limited 
2.52
22.72
(0.64)
2.24
-
-
(0.65)
2.24
16
 Atulah Contractors and Constructions 
Private Limited 
0.82
7.37
(0.12)
0.43
-
-
(0.13)
0.43
17
 Kamini Builders And Promoters Private 
Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
(0.03)
0.10
-
-
(0.03)
0.10
18
 Oasis Township Private Limited 
(0.02)
(0.14)
0.01
(0.02)
-
-
0.01
(0.02)
19
 Landlord Developers Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.03)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
20
 Primordial Buildcon Private Limited 
1.04
9.39
0.05
(0.16)
-
-
0.05
(0.16)
21
 JKB Constructions Private Limited 
0.00
0.00
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
22
 Monarch Villas Private Limited 
0.00
0.04
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
23
 JRS Projects Private Limited 
0.01
0.05
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
24
 Omaxe Entertainment Limited 
(0.00)
(0.02)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
25
 Omtech Infrastructure and Construction 
Limited 
(0.02)
(0.18)
0.04
(0.12)
-
-
0.04
(0.12)
26
 Omaxe Connaught Place Mall Limited 
(0.01)
(0.08)
0.01
(0.04)
-
-
0.01
(0.04)
27
 Green Planet Colonisers Private Limited 
0.00
0.04
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
28
 Anjaniputra Builders Private Limited 
(0.28)
(2.52)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
29
 Giant Dragon Mart Private Limited 
(0.08)
(0.70)
(0.00)
0.00
-
-
(0.00)
0.00
30
 Hamara Ghar Constructions and Developers 
Private Limited 
0.00
0.01
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
31
 Omaxe New Faridabad Developers Private 
Limited 
(0.00)
(0.01)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
32
 Link Infrastructure and Developers Private 
Limited 
(0.00)
(0.01)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
33
 Omaxe Infotech City Developers Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
(0.01)
0.05
-
-
(0.01)
0.05
34
 Zodiac Housing and Infrastructure Private 
Limited 
0.01
0.09
(0.02)
0.08
-
-
(0.02)
0.08
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 327 
S. 
No.
Name of Enterprises
Net Assets i.e total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
35
 Kashish Buildtech Private Limited 
0.00
0.01
(0.01)
0.05
-
-
(0.01)
0.05
36
 Omaxe Rajasthan SEZ Developers Limited 
(0.00)
(0.01)
-
-
-
-
-
-
37
 Omaxe Power Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
-
-
(0.00)
0.00
38
 Shikhar Landcon Private Limited 
(0.09)
(0.86)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
39
 Dreamze New Faridabad Develeopers LLP 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
40
 Arman Builders Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.03)
(0.01)
0.02
-
-
(0.01)
0.02
41
 Omaxe Heritage private Limited 
(4.83)
(43.48)
2.22
(7.73)
40.74
0.52
2.08
(7.20)
42
 Hartal Builders Private Limited 
0.17
1.57
(0.03)
0.09
(0.44)
(0.01)
(0.03)
0.09
43
 Omaxe International Bazzar Limited 
(0.21)
(1.88)
(0.40)
1.39
-
-
(0.40)
1.39
44
 Golden Glades Builders Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.02)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
45
 Shamba Developers Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.02)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
46
 Ekansh Buildtech Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.02)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
47
 Kavya Buildtech Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.03)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
48
 Aditya Realtech Private Limited 
0.02
0.18
(0.05)
0.18
-
-
(0.05)
0.18
49
 Panchi Developers Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.02)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
50
 Omaxe Housing And Infrastructure Limited 
(0.00)
(0.01)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
51
 Omaxe Hitech Infrastructure Company 
Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.02)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
52
 Mehtab Infratech Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.03)
0.00
(0.01)
-
-
0.00
(0.01)
53
 Mehboob Builders Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.02)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
54
 Sri Balaji Green Heights Private Limited 
0.01
0.08
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
55
 P P Devcon Private Limited 
(0.04)
(0.36)
(0.05)
0.18
-
-
(0.05)
0.18
56
 National Affordable Housing & 
Infrastructure Limited 
(0.00)
(0.03)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
57
 Dhanu Real Estate Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.01)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
58
 Aashna Realcon Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.01)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
59
 Aradhya Real Estate Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.01)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
60
 Sarva Buildtech Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
61
 Silver Peak Township Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
62
 Ayush Landcon Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
63
 Sarthak Landcon Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
64
 Chapal Buildhome Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.01)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
65
 Nexten (I) Growth Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
66
 Nexten Infra Growth Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
67
 Nexten Infra Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
68
 Nexten Real Growth Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
69
 Nexten Super Growth Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
70
 Colors Real Estate Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
71
 Ludhiana Wholesale Market Private Limited 
0.01
0.05
(0.01)
0.05
-
-
(0.01)
0.05
72
 Worldstreet Sports Center Limited 
0.01
0.05
(0.02)
0.05
-
-
(0.02)
0.05
73
 Blackbull Retails Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
74
 Omaxe Next Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
75
Other Entities under significant control
0.64
5.75
(0.60)
2.10
-
-
(0.60)
2.10
 
 
-
 
 Subsidiary-Foreign 
-
-
1
 Rohtas Holding (Gulf) Limited 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
 
 
 Minority Interests in all subsidiaries 
(1.31)
(11.80)
(0.91)
3.17
(8.67)
(0.11)
(0.88)
3.06
 
 
328 
Omaxe Limited
S. 
No.
Name of Enterprises
Net Assets i.e total assets 
minus total liabilities
Share in profit or loss
Share in Other 
Comprehensive Income
Share in Total 
Comprehensive Income
As % of 
consolidated 
net assets
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
As % of 
consolidated 
profit or 
loss
Amount  
(Rupees in 
crore)
 
 Associates-Indian 
1
 Associates Company 
2
 Capital Redevelopment Private Limited 
0.00
0.04
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
3
 FBD Real Grow Private Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
-
-
-
-
-
-
4
 Be together Vrindavan Developers Private 
Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
(0.00)
-
-
0.00
(0.00)
5
 Parkash Omaxe Amusement Park Private 
Limited 
(0.00)
(0.00)
(0.00)
0.00
-
-
(0.00)
0.00
Note 58: Additional Regulatory Information/disclosure (to the extent applicable to the group)
Note 58.1 Detail of Title deeds of Immovable Properties classified as Property Plant and Equipment not held in name of the 
group
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director 
of employee of 
promoter/director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held  
in the name of company
Land
Land at Agra
52.78 Omaxe Housing 
& Developers 
Limited
Title deed is held 
by wholly owned 
subsidiary Company
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at Agra
12.81 Omaxe 
Infrastructure 
Limited
Title deed is held 
by wholly owned 
subsidiary Company
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at Agra
26.46 Sumedha Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at Forest 
Faridabad
13.23 Lifestyle Township 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at Forest 
Faridabad
11.31 Rocky Valley 
Resorts Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 329 
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director 
of employee of 
promoter/director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held  
in the name of company
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.55 Prabal Developers 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.66 Arjit Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
5.17 Vaibhav 
Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.03 Abhay Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
6.75 Swapnil Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.28 Gaurang Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.39 Chetan Infrabuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.39 Girish Buildwell 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
330 
Omaxe Limited
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director 
of employee of 
promoter/director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held  
in the name of company
Land
Land at 
Machla
9.37 Chirag Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.84 Bandhu Buildtech 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
1.76 Vaibbav 
Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
3.98 Umang Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
5.95 Snehal Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.84 Gurmeet Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
8.40 Shashank 
Buildhome Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
6.05 Tushar Landcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 331 
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director 
of employee of 
promoter/director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held  
in the name of company
Land
Land at 
Machla
6.84 Sentinent 
Propereties 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
4.96 Bali Buildtech 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
7.27 Chaitnya Realcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
5.18 Hina Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
6.03 Taru Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
1.55 Snehlal Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
3.36 Shardul Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Machla
5.04 Chapal Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
332 
Omaxe Limited
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director 
of employee of 
promoter/director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held  
in the name of company
Land
Land at 
Machla
2.35 Vaman Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Mehrauli
3.00 Aashna Realcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at Sec-
86
30.14 Spike Developers 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at Sec-
86
11.67 Oasis Township 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at Sec-
86
3.75 Indersen 
Developers 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
5.54 Anant Realcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
2.77 Apoorva Infrabuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
2.32 Aric Infrabuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 333 
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director 
of employee of 
promoter/director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held  
in the name of company
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
0.44 Awwal Builders 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
6.38 Beautiful Landbse 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
5.50 Bhavesh Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
4.11 Geet Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
6.17 Inesh Buildcon 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
5.60 Kanak Buildhome 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
2.34 Mihir Buildwell 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
3.14 Nakul Technobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
334 
Omaxe Limited
Relevant 
line item 
in the 
Balance 
sheet
Description 
of item of 
Property
 Sum of 
Gross 
Carrying 
Value 
(Rupees in 
crore) 
Title deeds held 
in the name of 
Whether title deed 
holder is a promoter, 
director or relative of 
promoter */director 
of employee of 
promoter/director
Property held 
since the 
date on which 
transferred 
from Inventory 
to Property 
Plant and 
Equipment
Reason for not- being held  
in the name of company
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
12.34 Shalin Buildwell 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
9.72 Shreyash 
Buildhome Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
1.56 Stronghold 
Properties Private 
Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
2.10 Balesh Tecnobuild 
Private Limited
Title deed is held by 
entities over which key 
managerial personnel 
or their relatives 
exercises significant 
control
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in company due to 
Land ceiling Act in respective states and 
later on transferred to Omaxe Limited 
through development right agreement in 
earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
1.78 Chander Bhan 
S/o. Patram Jatav
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of individual 
due to Land ceiling Act in respective 
states and later on transferred to Omaxe 
Limited through development right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
0.35 Ghanshyam S/o. 
Bansi Lal
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of individual 
due to Land ceiling Act in respective 
states and later on transferred to Omaxe 
Limited through development right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
3.69 Radhey Shyam 
S/o. Bansi Lal
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of individual 
due to Land ceiling Act in respective 
states and later on transferred to Omaxe 
Limited through development right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
1.80 Satish Kumar S/o. 
Kishan Singh
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of individual 
due to Land ceiling Act in respective 
states and later on transferred to Omaxe 
Limited through development right 
agreement in earlier years.
Land
Land at 
Allahabad
0.47 Sube Singh S/o. 
Loharay Ram
Title deed is held in the 
name of others
1-Apr-2015
Property is acquired in name of individual 
due to Land ceiling Act in respective 
states and later on transferred to Omaxe 
Limited through development right 
agreement in earlier years.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 335 
Note 58.2 Enquiry under Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988
The Company does not have any Benami Property, where any proceedings has been initiated or pending against the Company 
for holding any Benami Property under Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988.
Note 58.3 Disclosure on relationship with Struck off Company
Name of the struck off 
company
Nature of 
transactions with 
struck off company
Balance 
outstanding as at 
31-Mar-2023
(Rupees in crore)
Balance 
outstanding as 
at 31-Mar-2022  
(Rupees in 
crore)
Relationship 
with the struck 
off company
Remarks
Gar Infra Reality Private 
Limited
Advance against 
good/services
-
 0.01 Vendor
Amount 
Written off
Ozone Estates Private 
Limited *
Receivables
4.90
 4.90 Vendor
Refer Note 
below *
* The outstanding pertains to Land Advances given. The group have already filed legal case against the promoters of the 
Company for recovery of amount and matter is sub-judice, however, provision for bad and doubtful advances for equivalent 
amount has already been made in the Financial Statements in previous periods. Since the matter is sub-judice against the 
promoters of the Company, in spite of Company being strike off, the amount outstanding as at balance sheet date has not been 
written off/back.
Note 58.4: The Group has complied with the number of layers prescribed under Companies Act  2013.
Note 58.5 : The Group has not entered into any scheme of arrangement which has an  accounting impact on current or previous 
financial year.
Note 58.6 : There is no income surrendered or disclosed as income during current or previous year 	in the tax assessment 
under the Income Tax Act 1961 that has not been recorded in books of accounts.
Note 58.7 : The Group has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the current or previous year.
Note 58.8 : The Group has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment or intangible assets or both during the current or 
previous year. 
Note 59: STANDARDS ISSUED AND AMENDED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE
The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) notifies new Indian Accounting Standards or amendments to the existing standards 
under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On March 23, 2023, MCA amended the 
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment 
Rules, 2023 applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
IND AS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements - The amendments require companies to disclose their material accounting 
policy rather than their significant accounting policies. Accounting policy information, together with other information, is 
material when it can reasonably be expected to influence decisions of primary users of general purpose financial statements. 
The company does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statement.
IND AS 12- Income Taxes- The amendments clarify how companies account for deferred tax on transactions such as leases 
and decommissioning obligations. The amendments narrowed the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 and 
24 of Ind AS 12 (recognition exemption) so that it no longer applies to transaction that, on initial recognition, give raise to equal 
taxable and deductible temporary differences. The company is evaluating the impact, if any, in its financial statements.
336 
Omaxe Limited
IND AS 8- Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors- The amendments will help entities to distinguish 
between accounting policies and accounting estimates, the definition of a change in accounting estimates has been replaced 
with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial 
statement that are subject to measurement uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require 
item in financial statement to be measured in a way that involves measurement uncertainty. The company does not expect this 
amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.
Note 60: 
(a)	 No funds have been advanced/loaned/invested (from borrowed fund or from share premium or from any other sources/
kind of fund) by the group to any other person(s) or entity (ies), including foreign entities(intermediaries), with the 
understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the intermediary shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or invest 
in other person or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or 
(ii) provide any guarantee, security or like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
(b)	 No funds have been received by the company from any person(s) or entity (ies), including foreign entities (funding Parties), 
with the understanding (whether recorded in writing or otherwise) that the group shall (i) directly or indirectly lend or 
invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate 
Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
Note 61: The Indian parliament has approved the Code of Social Security, 2020 which would impact the contribution by the 
group towards provident fund and gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment has released draft rules for the Code on 
Social Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020. The group will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are 
notified. The group will give appropriate impact in its financial statement in the period in which, the code become effective and 
the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
Note 62: The Previous year figures have been regrouped/ reclassified, wherever necessary, to make them comparable with 
current year figures.
The notes referred to above form an integral part of consolidated financial statements.
As per our audit report of even date attached 
For and on behalf of 	
 For and on behalf of Board of Directors
B S D & Co. 
Chartered Accountants
(Firm Reg. No. 000312S) 
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Sujata Sharma	
Rohtas Goel 	
Vinit Goyal
Partner	
DIN: 00003735	
DIN: 03575020
M. No. 087919 
Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Wholetime Director
	
Sd/-	
Sd/-
Place: New Delhi	
Manoj Kumar Dua	
Vikas Khandelwal
Date: 26 May, 2023	
Chief Financial Officer 	
Company Secretary
	
	
M. No. A18475
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 337 
Part-A
(Pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of subsidiaries
 (Rupees in crore)
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
1
Anjaniputra Builders Private 
Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.03)
 6.52 
 6.49 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
2
Arman Builders Private 
Limited
31-Jan-08 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.03)
 33.48 
 33.47 
 - 
 0.22 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 - 
 100.00 
3
Atulah Contractors and 
Constructions Private Limited
24-Feb-11 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 1.00 
 7.15 
 11.08 
 2.93 
 - 
 1.39 
 0.56 
 0.12 
 0.43 
 - 
 100.00 
4
Giant Dragon Mart Private 
Limited
12-Oct-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.71)
 0.01 
 0.71 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 50.00 
5
Ekansh Buildtech Private 
Limited
11-Nov-08 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.02)
 0.03 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
6
Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private 
Limited
16-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.73  1,858.14  1,857.37 
 1.73 
 4.64 
 (2.05)
 (0.50)
 (1.55)
 - 
 100.00 
7
Golden Glades Builders 
Private Limited
19-Apr-08 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.02)
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
8
Green Planet Colonisers 
Private Limited
16-Mar-06 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 1.00 
 5.57 
 6.57 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
9
Hamara Ghar Constructions 
and Developers Private 
Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.03 
 0.12 
 0.05 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
10
Hartal Builders and 
Developers Private Limited
14-Aug-19 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 5.00 
 0.53 
 33.61 
 28.08 
 - 
 0.35 
 0.13 
 0.04 
 0.09 
 - 
 75.00 
11
Jagdamba Contractors and 
Builders Limited
14-Dec-07 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 5.00 
 22.72 
 44.77 
 17.05 
 - 
 3.80 
 2.95 
 0.71 
 2.24 
 - 
 100.00 
12
JKB Constructions Private 
Limited
26-Oct-04 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.00 
 0.05 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
13
JRS Projects Private Limited
26-Oct-04 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.05 
 0.10 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
14
Kamini Builders And 
Promoters Private Limited
29-Sep-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.61 
 0.59 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.10 
 - 
 0.10 
 - 
 100.00 
15
Kashish Buildtech Private 
Limited
29-Sep-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 0.03 
 4.81 
 4.78 
 - 
 0.05 
 0.05 
 0.00 
 0.05 
 - 
 100.00 
16
Kavya Buildtech Private 
Limited
11-Nov-08 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.03)
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
17
Landlord Developers Private 
Limited
28-Jul-07 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 2.00 
 5.53 
 13.74 
 6.21 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
18
Link Infrastructure and 
Developers Private Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.01 
 0.06 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
19
Mehboob Builders Private 
Limited
16-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.02)
 0.03 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
20
Mehtab Infratech Private 
Limited
16-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.03)
 0.02 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
338 
Omaxe Limited
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
21
Monarch Villas Private Limited
26-Oct-04 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.04 
 0.09 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
22
National Affordable Housing 
and Infrastructure Limited
8-Aug-14 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.01 
 0.06 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
23
Navratan Techbuild Private 
Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (12.10)
 6.93 
 18.97 
 5.40 
 (0.02)
 (12.03)
 - 
 (12.03)
 - 
 100.00 
24
Oasis Township Private 
Limited
16-Mar-09 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.14)
 0.06 
 0.19 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 (0.02)
 - 
 100.00 
25
Omaxe Buildhome Limited
22-Sep-06 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 25.00 
 141.81 
 735.55 
 568.74 
 12.40 
 10.16 
 (8.68)
 (2.45)
 (6.23)
 - 
 100.00 
26
Omaxe Buildwell Limited
2-Mar-09 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 1.05 
 11.68 
 114.31 
 101.59 
 0.56 
 0.18 
 (12.61)
 (3.14)
 (9.47)
 - 
 100.00 
27
Omaxe Heritage Private 
Limited
31-Jan-08 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (43.48)  1,458.51  1,501.94 
 - 
 3.05 
 (10.37)
 (2.64)
 (7.73)
 - 
 100.00 
28
Omaxe New Chandigarh 
Developers Private Limited
14-Oct-08 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 50.00 
 (78.02)  3,043.50  3,071.52 
 0.62 
 170.40 
 (41.74)
 (8.58)
 (33.16)
 - 
 100.00 
29
Omaxe Indore Developers 
Limited
16-Mar-06 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.10)
 50.65 
 50.69 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.07)
 (0.03)
 (0.04)
 - 
 100.00 
30
Omaxe Entertainment Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.02)
 0.03 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
31
Omaxe Forest Spa and Hills 
Developers Limited
11-Jan-13 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 91.10 
 24.19 
 209.87 
 94.58 
 140.00 
 (2.07)
 (5.08)
 (1.29)
 (3.79)
 - 
 100.00 
32
Omaxe Hitech Infrastructure 
Company Private Limited
11-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.03)
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
33
Omaxe Housing and 
Developers Limited
26-Oct-04 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 2.26 
 6.56 
 35.29 
 26.47 
 - 
 0.46 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
34
Omaxe Housing And 
Infrastructure Limited
1-Feb-10 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.04)
 0.12 
 0.12 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
35
Omaxe Infotech City 
Developers Limited
5-Jan-07 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.00)
 0.05 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.05 
 0.05 
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 100.00 
36
Omaxe Infrastructure Limited
26-Oct-04 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 4.63 
 6.82 
 14.74 
 3.29 
 - 
 0.03 
 0.03 
 0.01 
 0.02 
 - 
 100.00 
37
Omaxe New Faridabad 
Developers Private Limited
16-Apr-18 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.01)
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
38
Omaxe Power Private Limited
3-Oct-07 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.00)
 0.19 
 0.14 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 100.00 
39
Omaxe Rajasthan SEZ 
Developers Limited
27-Nov-07 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.01)
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
40
Omtech Infrastructure and 
Construction Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.18)
 65.48 
 65.61 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.18)
 (0.06)
 (0.12)
 - 
 100.00 
41
Pam Developers (India) Private 
Limited
10-Aug-12 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.22)
 0.03 
 0.23 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
42
Omaxe Pancham Realcon 
Private Limited
27-May-10 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 3.31  1,040.96  1,037.60 
 0.03 
 9.60 
 (0.82)
 (0.17)
 (0.65)
 - 
 100.00 
43
Panchi Developers Private 
Limited
27-May-10 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.02)
 0.03 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 - 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
44
PP Devcon Private Limited
31-Jan-14 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.39)
 16.82 
 17.19 
 - 
 0.19 
 0.18 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
 75.00 
45
Primordial Buildcon Private 
Limited
10-Oct-06 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 9.20 
 9.33 
 0.08 
 - 
 0.24 
 (0.27)
 (0.03)
 (0.25)
 - 
 100.00 
46
Rivaj Infratech Private Limited
16-Feb-09 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.18)
 13.99 
 14.12 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 51.00 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 339 
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
47
Omaxe World Street Private 
Limited
8-Nov-10 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 38.00 
 (37.86)
 998.93 
 998.79 
 2.04 
 113.86 
 (36.69)
 (10.14)
 (26.55)
 - 
 75.00 
48
Rohtas Holdings (Gulf) Limited 
#
16-Jun-22 March 31, 2023
1 AED = 
Rs. 22.37
#
 0.06 
 (0.06)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 100.00 
49
Shamba Developers Private 
Limited
27-May-10 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.02)
 0.03 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 - 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
50
Shikhar Landcon Private 
Limited
29-Sep-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.84)
 0.33 
 1.16 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
51
Sri Balaji Green Heights 
Private Limited
23-Apr-12 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.07 
 3.28 
 3.16 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 75.00 
52
Zodiac Housing and 
Infrastructure Private Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 0.11 
 0.19 
 0.02 
 - 
 0.24 
 0.11 
 0.03 
 0.08 
 - 
 100.00 
53
Omaxe International Bazzar 
Private Limited
8-Mar-17 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.40 
 (1.88)
 6.96 
 8.44 
 - 
 3.26 
 1.86 
 0.47 
 1.39 
 - 
 100.00 
54
Oasis Suncity Realtors Private 
Limited
13-Mar-08 March 31, 2023
INR
2
 0.05 
 (0.05)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 100.00 
55
Reliable Manpower Solutions 
Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
2
 12.20 
 (0.03)
 12.20 
 0.03 
 - 
 - 
 (0.04)
 0.00 
 (0.04)
 - 
 99.18 
56
RPS Suncity Promoters and 
Developers Private Limited
13-Mar-08 March 31, 2023
INR
2
 0.05 
 (0.05)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 100.00 
57
Aadhira Developers Private 
Limited
1-Sep-09 March 31, 2023
INR
11
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 100.00 
58
Aashna Realcon Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.02)
 0.01 
 0.01 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
59
Aradhya Real Estate Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.02)
 148.11 
 148.11 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
60
Ashray Infrabuild Private 
Limited
5-Nov-08 March 31, 2023
INR
11
 0.05 
 (0.02)
 22.50 
 22.47 
 - 
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
61
Ayush Landcon Private Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 12.55 
 12.55 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
62
Bhanu Infrabuild Private 
Limited
5-Nov-08 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.05 
 (74.74)
 160.96 
 235.65 
 0.15 
 15.18 
 (30.41)
 (7.64)
 (22.77)
 - 
 100.00 
63
Caspian Realtors Private 
Limited
16-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
64
Chapal Buildhome Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 8.44 
 8.44 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
65
Daman Builders Private 
Limited
16-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
66
Damodar Infratech Private 
Limited
11-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
67
Davesh Technobuild Private 
Limited
29-Nov-10 March 31, 2023
INR
11
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 9.27 
 9.27 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
68
Dhanu Real Estate Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 3.68 
 3.68 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
69
Dinkar Realcon Private 
Limited
29-Nov-10 March 31, 2023
INR
11
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 14.81 
 14.81 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
340 
Omaxe Limited
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
70
Ekapad Developers Private 
Limited
11-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
71
Hemang Buildcon private 
Limited
29-Nov-10 March 31, 2023
INR
11
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 13.24 
 13.24 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
72
Hiresh Builders Private 
Limited
5-Nov-08 March 31, 2023
INR
11
 0.05 
 (0.01)
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
73
Manit Developers Private 
Limited
8-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
74
Nri City Developers Private 
Limited
15-Jun-17 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.01 
 0.18 
 1.14 
 0.95 
 - 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 100.00 
75
Rupesh Infratech private 
Limited
16-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
76
Sanvim Developers Private 
Limited
1-Sep-09 March 31, 2023
INR
11
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 10.28 
 10.27 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
77
Sarthak Landcon Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 33.46 
 33.46 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
78
Sarva Buildtech Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 4.73 
 4.73 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
79
Shubh Bhumi Developers 
Private Limited
1-Sep-09 March 31, 2023
INR
3
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 3.57 
 3.56 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
80
Silver Peak Township Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.05 
 (0.05)
 6.20 
 6.20 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
81
Ashok Infrabuild Private 
Limited
28-Jul-10 March 31, 2023
INR
4
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 1.62 
 1.61 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 100.00 
82
Glacier Agro Foods Products 
Private Limited
15-Oct-10 March 31, 2023
INR
4
 0.38 
 3.35 
 3.73 
 0.00 
 - 
 3.70 
 2.80 
 0.00 
 2.80 
 - 
 100.00 
83
Tejpal Infra Developers Private 
Limited
17-Mar-11 March 31, 2023
INR
4
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.72 
 0.71 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 100.00 
84
Aviral Colonizers Private 
Limited
15-Oct-10 March 31, 2023
INR
5
 0.01 
 0.02 
 3.14 
 3.11 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
85
Satkar Colonisers Private 
Limited
1-Feb-11 March 31, 2023
INR
5
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 4.70 
 4.70 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
86
Utkrisht Real Estate and 
Associates Private Limited
1-Feb-11 March 31, 2023
INR
5
 0.01 
 0.02 
 3.53 
 3.50 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
87
Aarzoo Technobuild Private 
Limited
5-Nov-08 March 31, 2023
INR
6
 0.05 
 (0.02)
 0.49 
 0.46 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
88
Abheek Builders Private 
Limited
5-Nov-08 March 31, 2023
INR
6
 0.05 
 0.00 
 0.05 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
89
Radiance Housing and 
Properties Private Limited
5-Nov-08 March 31, 2023
INR
6
 0.05 
 (0.01)
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
90
Abhas Realcon Private Limited
10-Nov-10 March 31, 2023
INR
7
 0.01 
 0.32 
 9.85 
 9.52 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 100.00 
91
Adesh Realcon Private Limited
10-Nov-10 March 31, 2023
INR
7
 0.01 
 (0.50)
 18.82 
 19.31 
 - 
 2.22 
 (0.51)
 (0.13)
 (0.38)
 - 
 100.00 
92
Anveshan Builders Private 
Limited
10-Nov-10 March 31, 2023
INR
7
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 3.00 
 3.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
93
Navadip Developers Private 
Limited
10-Nov-10 March 31, 2023
INR
7
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 341 
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
94
Omaxe India Trade Centre 
Private Limited
10-Aug-12 March 31, 2023
INR
8
 0.01 
 (59.93)
 174.36 
 234.28 
 - 
 (6.76)
 (51.36)
 (12.91)
 (38.45)
 - 
 90.00 
95
S N Realtors Private Limited
11-Feb-13 March 31, 2023
INR
9
 0.05 
 (12.27)
 58.25 
 70.46 
 - 
 0.35 
 (4.39)
 (1.13)
 (3.27)
 - 
 100.00 
96
Satvik Hitech Builders Private 
Limited
31-Mar-15 March 31, 2023
INR
10
 140.00 
 (1.10)
 140.11 
 1.21 
 - 
 0.10 
 (0.01)
 - 
 (0.01)
 - 
 100.00 
97
MR Real Estate Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 18.50 
 18.49 
 0.01 
 - 
 (0.00)
 (0.00)
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
98
Nexten (I) Growth Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 7.19 
 7.18 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
99
Nexten Infra Growth Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
100 Nexten Infra Private Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 7.19 
 7.19 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
101 Nexten Real Growth Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
102 Nexten Super Growth Private 
Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
103  Dreamze New Faridabad 
Developers LLP 
11-Dec-20 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 99.99 
104  Shine Grow New Faridabad 
LLP 
9-Dec-20 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.32)
 2.28 
 2.59 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.18 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
 99.99 
105  Estatelance Developers 
Private Limited 
9-Sep-22 March 31, 2023
INR
12
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 20.78 
 20.78 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 (0.00)
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
106  Blackbull Retails Private 
Limited 
16-Jun-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
107  Colors Real Estate Private 
Limited 
5-Aug-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.02)
 0.42 
 0.44 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
108  Ludhiana Wholesale Market 
Private Limited 
3-Aug-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 5.40 
 0.05 
 230.96 
 225.51 
 - 
 0.13 
 0.07 
 0.02 
 0.05 
 - 
 100.00 
109  Omaxe New Amritsar 
Developers Private Limited 
22-Jul-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.79)
 92.56 
 93.34 
 0.16 
 - 
 (1.06)
 (0.27)
 (0.79)
 - 
 100.00 
110  Omaxe Next Private Limited 
21-Jun-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
111  Worldstreet Sports Center 
Limited 
2-Jun-22 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 0.05 
 6.50 
 6.44 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.01)
 (0.06)
 0.05 
 - 
 100.00 
112  Salvatore Infra Buildtech 
Limited 
18-Mar-23 March 31, 2023
INR
7
 2.00 
 (0.05)
 1.97 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
113  Estatelance Real Estate 
Private Limited 
8-Dec-22 March 31, 2023
INR
11
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 15.07 
 15.06 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 100.00 
114  Aanchal Infrabuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.01 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
115  Abhay Technobuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
116  Abhiman Buildtech Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.03)
 0.00 
 0.02 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.02)
 - 
 (0.02)
 - 
 - 
117  Absolute Infrastructure 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
342 
Omaxe Limited
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
118  Adil Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
119  Advaita Properties Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.03 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
120  Advay Properties Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
121  Agasthya Properties Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.01 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
122  Alpesh Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
123  Amber Infrabuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
124  Amit Jain Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.04 
 0.03 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
125  Amod Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
126  Ananddeep Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
127  Anant Realcon Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
128  Aneesh Buildtech Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.02 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
129  Apoorva Infrabuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.21 
 0.21 
 - 
 0.59 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
130  Arhant Infrabuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.05 
 0.87 
 0.81 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.09 
 - 
 0.09 
 - 
 - 
131  Aric Infrabuild Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
132  Arjit Builders Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 1.50 
 4.91 
 3.40 
 - 
 4.47 
 2.03 
 0.51 
 1.52 
 - 
 - 
133  Art Balcony Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
134  Avindra Estate Developers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
135  Avval Builders Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
136  Balesh Technobuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.07 
 0.06 
 - 
 1.20 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
137  Bali Buildtech Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
138  Bandhu Buildtech Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
139  Beautiful Landbase Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.17 
 0.15 
 - 
 0.49 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
140  Bhargav Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 4.62 
 4.61 
 - 
 0.10 
 0.01 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
141  Bhavesh Buildcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.06 
 0.05 
 - 
 0.20 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
142  Chaitanya Realcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
143  Chetan Infrabuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 343 
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
144  Chirag Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
145  Cress Propbuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 1.82 
 1.83 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
146  Daksh Township Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
147  Deejit Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
148  Deepaalay Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
149  Deepal Township Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
150  Deepsing Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.07 
 0.08 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.05 
 0.04 
 - 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
151  Desire Housing and 
Construction Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
152  Devgar Estate Developers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.24 
 0.20 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
153  Distinctive Infrastructure And 
Construction Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
154  Dream Techno Build Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.12)
 0.00 
 0.12 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
155  Dream Towers Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.03 
 0.03 
 - 
 0.05 
 0.05 
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
156  DVM Realtors Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 11.78 
 11.75 
 2.00 
 0.12 
 0.12 
 - 
 0.12 
 - 
 - 
157  Excellent Apartments Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.95 
 0.95 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
158  Fast Track Buildcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
159  Garg and Goel Estate 
Developers Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.02)
 0.01 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
160  Garg Realtors Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
161  Garvish Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
162  Gaurang Buildcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
163
 Geet Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.03)
 0.12 
 0.14 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
164  Girish Buildwell Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
165  Goel Isha Colonisers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.03)
 0.01 
 0.03 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
166  Green Earth Promoters 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
167  Gurmeet Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
344 
Omaxe Limited
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
168  Hina Technobuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
169  Indrasan Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
170  Istuti Realcon Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.02)
 1.13 
 1.15 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
171  Jagat Buildtech Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
172  Jai Dev Colonisers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
173  Jishnu Buildcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
174  Jitenjay Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
175  Jivish Colonisers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
176  JSM Enterprises Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
177  Kalp Buildtech Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 19.15 
 19.15 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
178  Kanak Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.47 
 0.46 
 - 
 1.05 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
179  Kartik Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
180  KBM Constructions Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
181  Kishordeep Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
182  Krishan Kripa Buildcon 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.08 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
183  Laldeep Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.11 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
184  Lavanya Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.07 
 0.07 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
185  Lifestyle Township Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
186  Lohith Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
187  Luxury Township Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
188  Mangal Bhumi Properties 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.03 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
189  Mankish Colonisers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
190  Manwal Colonisers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 345 
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
191  Meghmala Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.02 
 (0.00)
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
192  Mihir Buildwell Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.94 
 0.93 
 - 
 0.36 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
193  Milestone Township Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.04)
 0.07 
 0.10 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.03)
 - 
 (0.03)
 - 
 - 
194  Motto Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.06 
 0.08 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
195  Nakul Technobuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.11 
 0.10 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
196  Naptune Technobuild Projects 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
197  Natraj Colonisers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.02)
 1.35 
 1.35 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
198  Naveenraj Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.04 
 0.80 
 0.75 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
199  Neegar Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
200  New Horizons Township 
Developers Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.03 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
201  Omaxe Realtors Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.05 
 (0.05)
 4.31 
 4.30 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
202  P N Buildcon Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
203  Parjit Realtors Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.08 
 0.05 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
204  Prabal Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
205  Praveen Buildcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.35 
 0.34 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
206  Praveen Mehta Builders 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.06 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
207  PSJ Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
208  Puru Builders Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
209  Ramniya Estate Developers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
210  Raveendeep Colonisers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.15 
 0.14 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
211  Sandeep Landcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.03 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
212  Sandeep Township Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.17 
 0.14 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
213  Sangupt Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
214  Sanjit Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
346 
Omaxe Limited
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
215  Sankalp Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.04 
 0.05 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
216  Sanya Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
217  Savim Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 2.80 
 2.80 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
218  Sentinent Properties Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
219  Shalin Buildwell Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
220  Shantiniwas Developers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
221  Shardul Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
222  Shashank Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
223  Shivshakti Realbuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.06 
 0.06 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
224  Shreyas Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.21 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
225  Singdeep Estate Developers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.20 
 0.18 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
226  Smart Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
227  Snehal Buildcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
228  SNJ Builders Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
229  Source Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
230  Spike Developers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
231  Starex Projects Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.02 
 2.68 
 2.65 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
232  Stepping Stone Buildhome 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.27 
 0.35 
 0.07 
 - 
 0.65 
 0.27 
 - 
 0.27 
 - 
 - 
233  Stronghold Properties Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.87 
 0.87 
 - 
 0.67 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
234  Subodh Buildwell Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 2.63 
 3.85 
 1.22 
 - 
 0.09 
 0.08 
 0.01 
 0.07 
 - 
 - 
235  Sumedha Builders Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.04 
 0.02 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
236  Sunrise Township Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
237  Sunview Township Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.06 
 0.07 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 347 
Sl. 
No.
Name of Subsidiary
The date since 
when subsidiary 
was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if dif-
ferent from the 
holding company’s 
reporting period
Reporting 
currency 
and Ex-
change 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiar-
ies.
Note 
No. 
Share 
capital
Re-
serves 
and sur-
plus
Total 
assets
Total Li-
abilities 
(Non 
Current 
and Cur-
rent Lia-
bility)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(includ-
ing other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provi-
sion for 
taxation
Profit/
(loss) 
after 
taxation
Pro-
posed 
Dividend
% of 
share-
holding
238  Swapan Sunder Township 
Developers Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
239  Swapnil Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
240  Swarg Sukh Buildhome 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.11 
 0.10 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
241  Taru Buildcon Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
242  True Dreams Developers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
243  True Estate Build Developers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.04 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
244  True Gem Tech Developers 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
245  Tushar Landcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
246  Udal Properties Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
247  Umang Buildcon Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
248  Vaibhav Technobuild Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
249  Vaman Buildhome Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
250  Veenish Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
251  VGSG Realtors Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.01 
 0.02 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
252  Vimsan Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.05 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
253  Vineera Colonisers Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.03 
 0.11 
 0.07 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
254  Omaxe Affordable Homes 
Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.04)
 0.00 
 0.03 
 - 
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
255  Omaxe Hotels Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.05 
 (0.23)
 0.00 
 0.18 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
256  Starshine Realtors Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.01)
 0.00 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 - 
257
 Mangla Villas Private Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 0.12 
 1.03 
 0.90 
 - 
 0.14 
 0.08 
 0.00 
 0.08 
 - 
 - 
258  Rocky Valley Resorts Private 
Limited 
March 31, 2023
INR
13
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 0.05 
 0.05 
 - 
 0.05 
 - 
 - 
348 
Omaxe Limited
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of limited liability partnership
 (Rupees in crore)
Sl. 
No.
Name of limited liability partnership
The Data since when 
LLP was acquired
Reporting period 
for the subsidiary 
concerned, if different 
from the holding 
company’s reporting 
period
Reporting 
currency and 
Exchange 
rate as on 
the last 
date of the 
relevant 
Financial 
year in 
the case 
of foreign 
subsidiaries.
Note 
No. 
Partners 
contribu-
tion
Reserves 
and sur-
plus
Total as-
sets
Total 
Liabilities 
(Non Cur-
rent and 
Current 
Liability)
Invest-
ments
Turnover 
(including 
other 
income)
Profit/
(loss) 
before 
taxation
Provision 
for taxa-
tion
Profit/
(loss) 
after taxa-
tion
Proposed 
Dividend
% of part-
nership 
interest
1
Dreamze New Faridabad Developers 
LLP
11-Dec-20 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.00)
 0.01 
 0.00 
 - 
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 (0.00)
 - 
 99.99 
1
Shine Grow New Faridabad LLP
9-Dec-20 March 31, 2023
INR
1
 0.01 
 (0.32)
 2.28 
 2.59 
 - 
 0.18 
 0.18 
 - 
 0.18 
 - 
 99.99 
Note no.
1	
Subsidiaries of Omaxe Limited
2	
Subsidiaries of Omaxe Buildhome Limited
3	
Subsidiaries of Omaxe New Chandigarh Developers Private Limited
4	
Subsidiaries of Omaxe Garv Buildtech Private Limited
5	
Subsidiaries of Omaxe Pancham Realcon Private Limited
6	
Subsidiaries of Bhanu Infrabuild Private Limited
7 
Subsidiaries of Omaxe World Street Private Limited
8	
Subsidiaries of Pam Developers (India) Private Limited
9	
Subsidiaries of Navratan Tech Build Private Limited
10	
Subsidiaries of Omaxe Forest SPA and Hills Developers Limited
11	
Subsidiary of Omaxe New Amritsar Developers Private Limited
12	
Subsidiaries of MR Real Estate Private Limited
13	
Other Entities under significant control of Omaxe Limited
# Foreign Subsidiaries registered in Dubai.
Corporate Overview
Management Reports
financial statements
Annual Report 2022-23 
 349 
Part B
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of associate company and limited liability partnership
(Rupees in crore)
Sl. No.
Name of associate/ limited 
liability partnership
The Data since 
when associate/ 
LLP was acquired
Latest audited balance 
sheet date
Share of associate held by the company on the year 
end
Description of how there is significant 
influence
Reason 
why the 
associates 
is not con-
solidated
Net worth 
attribut-
able to 
share-
holding as 
per latest 
audited 
balance 
sheet
Profit/(loss) 
for the year
Considered 
for consoli-
dation
Not 
consid-
ered for 
consoli-
dation
Number
Amount of 
investment
Extent of holding 
% /partnership 
interest %
1
Parkash Omaxe Amusement Park 
Private Limited
19-Dec-15 March 31, 2023
 5,000 
 50,000.00 
 50.00 Holding more than 20% of voting power
NA
 (0.00)
 - 
 0.00 
2
Capital Redevelopment Private 
Limited
23-Aug-16 March 31, 2023
 2,400 
 24,000.00 
 24.00 Holding more than 20% of voting power
NA
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
3
FBD Real Grow Private Limited
3-Jan-22 March 31, 2023
 2,500 
 25,000.00 
 25.00 Holding more than 20% of voting power
NA
 (0.91)
 - 
 (0.20)
4
Omaxe Be Together Project 
Developers Private Limited
29-Dec-22 March 31, 2023
 3,000 
 30,000.00 
 30.00 Holding more than 20% of voting power
NA
 0.00 
 (0.00)
 - 
For and on behalf of board of directors
Sd/- 
Rohtas Goel
 DIN:00003735 
 Chairman and Wholetime Director 
Sd/- 
Vinit Goyal
 DIN: 03575020 
 Wholetime Director 
Sd/- 
Manoj Kumar Dua
 Chief Financial Officer 
Sd/-
Vikas Khandelwal
 Company Secretary 
M. No. A18475
Place: New Delhi
Date: 26 May, 2023
NOtes
NOtes
NOtes
During FY23, we witnessed the 
leadership change with a strong 
legacy that is paving way for greater 
tomorrow. 
We are building tomorrow, exploring 
horizons and infusing new energy.
Mr. Rohata Goel
Chairman & Non-Executive Director
Mr. Mohit Goel
Managing Director
Mr. Jatin Goel
Group Director-Operations
36 
Omaxe Limited
OMAXE LIMITED   I   Annual Report 2022-23
