24th August, 2023 
 
 
 
The Listing Department 
The Listing Department 
BSE Limited 
The National Stock Exchange of India Limited 
Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, 
Exchange Plaza, 
Dalal Street, 
Bandra Kurla Complex, 
Mumbai – 400001 
Bandra (E), Mumbai - 400051 
Symbol: 532934 
Symbol: PPAP 
  
Subject: Regulation 34 - Notice for 28th Annual General Meeting ("AGM") and annual report for the 
financial year 2022-23 of PPAP Automotive Limited ("Company") 
 
Dear Sir,  
 
Pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, please find enclosed notice for 28th AGM scheduled to be 
held on 15th September, 2023 at 11.30 a.m. (IST), through video conferencing/ other audio visual means 
and annual report for financial year 2022-23 of the Company. 
 
The notice for 28th AGM and annual report for financial year 2022-23 is also available on the website of 
the Company at www.ppapco.in. 
 
This is for your information and record. 
 
 
Thanking you, 
Yours faithfully, 
For PPAP Automotive Limited 
 
 
 
Pankhuri Agarwal 
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer  
 
PANKHURI 
AGARWAL
Digitally signed by PANKHURI AGARWAL 
DN: c=IN, o=PERSONAL, 
pseudonym=90c26cdb32994063afb8c07
c5da85b91, 
2.5.4.20=e90719d9b714e1f5fff521063df7
b4f9cf36d730e9f2e1676a822382609a98f
3, postalCode=201017, st=Uttar Pradesh, 
serialNumber=3c5cb42087c3255c3ff07a
4e4fc771f8f08c0796ee464df8b34d770d6
94aa473, cn=PANKHURI AGARWAL 
Date: 2023.08.24 14:17:19 +05'30'
This annual report
provides detailed informaƟon about
PPAP’s progress and highlights for the year ended March
31, 2023. This is the primary report to our stakeholders in
which we aim to provide a balanced and accurate
reﬂecƟon of our value creaƟon methodology, risks and
opportuniƟes and our performance scorecard as well as
our future roadmap.
Inside the Report
Corporate Overview
002
PPAP At Glance
022
Board of Directors
024
From the Chairman’s Desk
Statutory Report
027
NoƟce
040
Director report
054
Corporate Governance Report
076
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report
105
Management Discussion and Analysis Report
Financial Statement
118
Standalone Financial Statement
176
Consolidated Financial Statement
1
Becoming a leading supplier 
for our leading customer
• Trustworthiness
• Mutual respect
• Creativity
• Co-operation
• Excellence
To be a global level excellence 
company, with an inspiring work 
culture, for serving our customers 
and our society, by exceeding the 
expectations, of all our stakeholders
3
Group Companies
2193
Employees
` 492.32 crore 
Revenue
3
PPAP AT GLANCE
A Brief Overview
PPAP Automotive Limited (PPAP) 
was 
established 
in 
1978 
for 
manufacturing 
custom 
made 
extrusion 
products. 
Today, 
the 
company along with its subsidiaries 
and joint venture companies, deliver 
value added products to various 
customers 
in 
Automotive 
and 
Ancillary Industries.
KEY FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FOR FY 2022-23 (STANDALONE)
☐
Recorded revenue of ` 492.32 crore in FY 2022-23, compared to ` 409.07 crore in 
FY 2021-22.
☐
Increase in Profit before tax (PBT) from ` 611.20 crore in FY 2021-22 to ` 901.32 crore 
in FY 2022-23.
☐
Profit after tax stood at ` 6.81 crore, up to 48.42% more as compared to FY 2021-22.
2
JAMMU &
KASHMIR
HIMACHAL
PRADESH
UTTAR
PRADESH
ARUNACHAL
PRADESH
WEST
BENGAL
MADHYA
PRADESH
ANDHRA
PRADESH
RAJASTHAN
LADAKH
PUNJAB
HARYANA
GUJARAT
KERELA
GOA
MAHARASHTRA
TELENGANA
ORISSA
KARNATAKA
TAMILNADU
CHATTISGARH
JHARKHAND
BIHAR
ASSAM
SIKKIM
NAGALAND
MANIPUR
MIZORAM
TRIPURA
MEGHALAYA
UTTARANCHAL
DELHI
NOIDA
GREATER NOIDA
BHIWADI
SRIPERUMBUDUR
VIRAMGAM
PUNE
CHENNAI
GURUGRAM
Registered Office
Sales Office
PPAP Manufacturing Facility
PPAP Warehouse
PTI Manufacturing Facility
PTech Manufacturing Facility
Elpis Warehouse
Not to scale - for iIlustration purpose only
Gurugram
Delhi Noida
Greater Noida
Sriperumbudur
 Chennai
Viramgam
Bhiwadi
Pune
106
Dealers & Distributors
5
Unfolding our footprints
With a strong foundation and a commitment 
to excellence, we have established a formidable 
geographical presence.
 Geographical Presence
4
MORIROKU TECHNOLOGY INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED
JRG AUTOMOTIVE
INDUSTRIES INDIA PVT. LTD.
*EV Customers
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
VOLKSWAGEN
Volkswagen India Private Limited
TM
International Automotive Components
TM
International Automotive Components
TM
International Automotive Components
*
*
*
*
7
 Clientele
The Company’s Capability reflected in its Elite 
Clientele
PPAP places customer satisfaction as a top-priority 
and strives to build trust through a Customer-First 
approach.
6
9
 Awards and Recognitions
8
Body Side Moulding
Bumper
Bumper Bracket
Drink Holder
Engine Cover
Splash Guard
Fender Linging
Fog Lamp Cover
Grill
Battery Box
Mud Flap
Power Supply
QTR Partition Glass
Injection Moulding
Car Accessories
Smart Phone Holder
Drink Holder
Ash Bottle
Trash Box
Wiper
After Market
11
Solar BaƩery Pack
E2W/E3W BaƩery Pack
E3W BaƩery Pack
Golf Cart BaƩery Pack
Energy Storage System (ESS)
Li-ion Battery
APPLICATION
 Product Portfolio
10
Industrial Products
Commercial Tooling
13
Automotive Parts
Existing Products
Addition during the year
Waist Seal- Chrome
Weight Reduction through material
Waist Seal- Piano Black
Waist Seal- Chrome
Static Seal
Waist Seal- Coloured
Weight Reduction
Waist Seal
Waist Seal- Black
A-PLR Trim corner 
Chrome
A-PLR Trim corner 
Black
CLUSTER 
INSTRUMENT 
CENTER 

REAR TRAY 

COVER FRONT  
FENDER 

COVER STRG 
COLUMN HOLE 

CLUSTER 
INSTRUMENT 
METER 

BOOT COMP  
SHIFT LEVER 

BEZZEL SWITCH 


PANEL 
INSTRUMENT 
CLUSTER

GUIDE GRILL AIR

GARNISH  
COWL TOP

SPALSH GUARD

DOOR LNG

GARN CTR 
PILLAR LOWER

GARN CTR 
PILLAR UPPER

TRIM COMP, 
QUARTER 
LOWER

GURAD 
SPLASH

BODY SIDE 
MOULDING

GLOVE  
BOX
PARTITION

GLASS RUN 
CHANNEL

ROOF MOULDING

DRAIN HOSE

WEATHERSTRIP 
OUTER-BLACK TYPE 
WITH BENDING

SUNROOF SEAL


SUS STEEL 
WEATHERSTRIP 
OUTER-STRAIGHT/
BENDING TYPE

CTR UPPER
RIGHT

TRIM DOOR OPENING

WEATHERSTRIP 
INNER

WEATHERSTRIP DAM 
WINDSHIELD

MOULDING 
WINDSHIELD

AIR SPOILER

SLIDE RAIL-TOTAL/
PARTIAL BLACK TYPE

HOOD SEAL

SUS WEATHERSTRIP 
OUTER-STRAIGHT 

SUS WEATHERSTRIP 
OUTER-BENDING
 Product Portfolio
12

COVER, UNDER

FOOT BOARD LEG SHIELD

SHIELD LEG LOWER 

COVER LEG, SHIELD
FENDER REAR, UPPER 

MOLDED SEAT BASE 

SHIELD, LEG FRONT 

COVER HANDLE, FRONT 

FENDER REAR,
LOWER

AIR CONNECTING
TUBE

Education
Education is pivotal to build a strong and prosperous nation. PPAP 
through VAJF educates children by bearing the school fees of 
children in local community.
400
Students
Healthcare
Recognizing the importance of nourishment in facilitating optimal
learning and development, VAJF contributed to the Akshay Patra
Foundation to undertake a project of distributing nutritious food to
underprivilege.
3500
Children
15
PPAP strives to positively impact the community it which it operates. Vinay
& Ajay Jain Foundation (VAJF) is a CSR initiative of PPAP with a key focus
on sustainable reforestation with native trees species. Armed with knowledge
gained by extensive studies, hands on experience of 35 years and a passion to
create healthy living spaces, the VAJF has taken the initiative towards raising
awareness on environment, sharing knowledge for the education of the masses
and providing resources for reviving our green cover with native trees species
for our better health.
Environment
Tree plantation is at the topmost priority of CSR initiatives
undertaken
by
PPAP
through
VAJF.
Tree
plantation
will
contribute to sequestration of approximately 1364 tCO per
annum.
98000 
+25000
Trees Planted
Annual Target
 Corporate Social Responsiblity
14
Tech-show
Participating in the tech shows was a pivotal moment for your company. Our
presence at various events provided us with a valuable platform to showcase
our latest products to a global audience.
Blood Donation
In our ongoing commitment to making a positive impact on the community,
your company took a proactive stance by organizing blood donation drive,
which saw enthusiastic participation from employees.
17
Yoga Day
To
promote
well-being
and
fostering
a
harmonious
work
environment, PPAP celebrated International Yoga Day with great
enthusiasm.
The
Company
organized
yoga
that
provided
employees with an opportunity to recharge both their bodies and
minds.
Environment Day
PPAP proudly celebrated World Environment Day with a
series of impactful initiatives. Throughout the year, we
intensified our efforts to minimize our carbon footprint and
enhance our eco-friendly practices.
 Employee's Engagement
16
Kids engagement
our organization has once again demonstrated its unwavering commitment to
nurturing young talents and fostering a culture of learning through an array of
captivating kids' activities.
Women's Day
International Women's Day held a special place in our annual activities
as we dedicated a moment to honour and celebrate the vital role of
women within our company.
19
Annual function
The annual function held this year was a resounding celebration of our company's
achievements, unity, and vibrant corporate culture. This occasion served as a
platform to recognize outstanding contributions and exceptional performances,
reinforcing our commitment to excellence and innovation.
Long term service award
Recognizing and celebrating the dedicated commitment of our employees,
this year's long-term service award program was a heartfelt expression of
gratitude for their unwavering loyalty and hard work. We take immense pride
in honouring those individuals who have been instrumental in shaping the
success story of our company over the years.
 Employee's Engagement
18
 Performance Snapshot
3291
3860
4394
10.20%
9.10%
9%
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
EBITA
EBITDA
EBITDA Margin
210
-78
-594
0.60%
-0.19%
1.16%
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
PAT
PAT
PAT Margin
34998
41379
47767
1921
2090
2242
2014
2079
901
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
Gross Fixed asset
Tangible Asset
Intangible Asset
CWIP
30068
39088
47866
1980
2605
3181
172 
498 
63
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
Revenue from operaƟons
Parts
Tools
Others
5217
10808
15078
0.17 
0.36 
0.51 
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
Debt
Total Debt
Debt equity raƟo
30618
30388
29474
0.70%
-0.30%
-2.01%
FY 2021
FY 2022
FY 2023
Networth
Net worth
RONW
21
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
Chairman & Managing Director
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chief Executive Officer & Managing 
Director
Mr. Abhishek Jain 
Independent Directors
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi 
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
Mrs. Celine George
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Non-Executive Director 
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD 
AUDIT
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta- Chairman
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi
Mr. Abhishek Jain
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION 
Mrs. Celine George- Chairperson
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIP
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta- Chairman
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Mr. Abhishek Jain
CORPORATE SOCIAL 
RESPONSIBILITY
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi-
Chairman
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Mr. Abhishek Jain
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
Mr. Sachin Jain
COMPANY SECRETARY 
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal
(w.e.f. 13th May,2022)
WEBSITE
www.ppapco.in
REGISTERED OFFICE
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
Tel. No.: +91-11-26910777
CORPORATE OFFICE
B-206A, Sector-81, Phase-II,  
Noida-201305 Uttar Pradesh, 
Tel. No.: +91-120-4093901
AUDITORS
•
M/s. O.P. Bagla & Co. LLP
(Statutory Auditors)
(Term expiring in ensuing AGM)
•
M/s. Jangira & Associates 
(Cost Auditors)
(Appointed w.e.f. 19th May, 2023)
•
M/s. NKJ & Associates 
(Secretarial Auditors)
BANKERS
•
ICICI Bank Limited
•
HDFC Bank Limited
•
The Hongkong and Shanghai 
Banking Corporation Limited
•
Axis Bank Limited
•
State Bank of India
REGISTRAR AND SHARE TRANSFER AGENT
Link Intime India Private Limited
Noble Height, 1st Floor, Plot NH2, C-1, Block LSC,
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, New Delhi-110058
PLANT LOCATIONS
•
B-206, Sector-81, Phase-II,  Noida-201305, 
Uttar Pradesh
•
B-4, Site V, UPSIDC, Kasna, Surajpur
Industrial Area, Greater Noida-201306, Uttar 
Pradesh
•
SP3-802, R.I.A, Pathredi Industrial Area, 
Bhiwadi, Alwar-301019, Rajasthan
•
G-24, SIPCOT Industrial Park, Vallam
Vadagal, Talluk Sriperumbudur, 
Kancheepuram-602105, Tamil Nadu
•
Survey No. 866 Village Ukhlod, Taluk 
Viramgam, Ahmedabad-382150, Gujarat
 Corporate Information
20
•
B.E. (Mech.) from I.I.T. Roorkee and M.B.A. from IIM, Ahmedabad
•  Has a rich and diverse top management experience in the field of automobile, auto components, 
engineering, etc.
•  Associated with Tata Motors, Eicher and Hindustan Motors
•  President of Tractor Manufacturers Association & Member of CII National Council
•
Bachelor of Science from Delhi University
• Founding partner of our Company
• Associated with the business since inception
•  Work experience of over three decades. She possess a deep understanding of automotive business 
•
Bachelor of Science in Industrial Engineering from Purdue University, USA
• Work experience of over 15 years
• Chairman of North region  Honda Suppliers Club
•  Coordinator Zone 2 Automotive Component Manufactures Association Northern Region 
23
 Board Of Directors
•
Bachelor of Commerce from Shri Ram College of Commerce, Delhi University
•  Associated with the Company since inception with experience of over 45 years in polymer process-
ing industry and over 30 years in the automotive industry
• President of Toyota Kirloskar Supplier Association
•
A Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
•  Managing Partner of K.S. Gupta Co., Chartered Accountants (Est.: 1955) with over 35 years of 
experience
•  He has in depth knowledge and experience in the field of Corporate Finance, Taxation, Accounts 
and Audit
•
PGDM in Business Economics from Delhi University, PGDIM from IMI Delhi and Chevening Gu-
rukul Scholar from London School of  political science & Economics
•  Associated with ONGC, TCS, Cairn Energy, Max healthcare
•  She has over 30 years of experience in the areas of Leadership, Business Transformation and HR
•
B.E. (Mech.) from Delhi College of Engineering & M.B.A. from IIM, Ahmedabad
•  Work experience of over 40 years primarily in automotive sector. He has 
worked with Maruti Suzuki for over 38 years
•  He was deputed as whole time Director of Suzuki Powertrain India Ltd, and 
Maruti Suzuki as Executive Director of Supply Chain and  Quality Assurance
22
My Dear Stakeholders,
I wish to extend my warmest greetings to all of you. 
On behalf of your Board of Directors, I have, once again, this 
opportunity to communicate with you. 
The last year began on a challenging note. 
The aftereffects of the pandemic and the ongoing global conflicts 
significantly impacted the world economy in many ways which 
include increase in commodity and energy prices, trade, and 
investments slow down, geopolitical tensions, and the severe 
humanitarian crisis. Due to globalisation, no country today is 
insulated from political or economic events happening in other 
parts of the world. 
Atmanirbhar India, with its strong fundamentals was decently 
able to withstand all the global disruptions and continue with its 
growth story. India has been in a sweat spot and has managed 
to clock an economic growth of above 7% for FY23. Further, the 
outlook for our Indian economy continues to be bullish as it is 
projected that by 2030, our economy will be the third largest in 
the world and our GDP is likely to increase by three times of its 
current level. 
The steep increase in per capita incomes of the masses will 
create enormous demand for goods and services. This will be 
unprecedented, and it will be the fastest increase of economic 
activity in the history of our country.  
It is my firm belief that organisations which are built on strong 
fundamentals, and which have sound and ethical business and 
governance practices will benefit multi fold from these enormous 
opportunities which our country brings us.
Our Indian passenger vehicle industry has surpassed the 
Japanese industry to become third largest market globally, only 
preceded by China and US. In spite of becoming number three, 
the difference between India and its nearest competitor runs 
into millions of vehicles, and this my dear stakeholders, gives us 
enough headroom for sustainable growth. 
Due to the growing aspirations of our people and higher 
penetration of vehicles across the country, our industry is at the 
cusp of an era of phenomenal growth. 
The passenger vehicle industry is expected to reach over 6 
million vehicles by 2030. 
Our 
mobility 
industry 
is 
going 
through 
unprecedented 
transformation, be it, the variety of fuels, the technology related to 
drive train, electronics, and features focussed on making the cars 
much safer and significantly more energy efficient than what they 
are today. Huge efforts are being undertaken towards making the 
industry sustainable and reduce the impact on the environment. 
Globally, companies in the mobility industry are targeting carbon 
neutrality by 2050.
The year 2022-23 was a challenging year for your Company as 
the consequences of the global pandemic continued to linger on. 
On one hand, your Company made steady inroad in its strategic 
endeavours 
for 
growth, 
improved 
operational 
efficiency, 
developed new technologies, and significantly improved the 
adoption of sustainable business practices. 
On the other hand, the profitability of the group on a consolidated 
level was a big challenge that your management made 
humongous efforts to resolve. 
In order to improve this situation, our focus was on three prime 
areas – review, and correction of the selling price of finished 
goods manufactured by us, review, and correction of the 
purchase price of all the raw materials, and review, and correction 
of the wastages in our production process. After thorough and 
focussed reviews, strong actions were taken to rectify all these 
issues. Fortunately for us, our efforts are being supported by the 
softening of the prices of our raw materials. 
I am happy to share with you, that the path for recovery has been 
set. Things have started moving in the right direction. Our group 
is now moving to be on a strong footing which will enable us to 
achieve higher growth, as well as higher profitability. I am sure 
the economic growth of our country, coupled with our industry’s 
growth, along with our strong focus on introducing value added 
products for our customers will certainly result in a promising and 
sustainable future for your Company.
Your Company continues to expand its business with addition of 
new products and new customers. 
During this year, your company was successful in introducing new 
technology parts which were highly appreciated by its customers 
and were immediately adopted for use in their forthcoming models. 
This focus of your Company will ensure higher revenues coupled 
with better margins as these premium products bear fruits. 
Your Company was successful in securing new business from 
leading Electric Vehicle manufacturers also. Although your 
Company’s product range is engine agnostic, this business from 
EV manufacturers will ensure business continuity and growth 
as customer preferences shifts from ICE vehicles to Electric 
vehicles. Going forward, your Company will continue to scout for 
more opportunities with Electric Vehicle mobility companies in all 
categories and will ensure that we have a substantial presence, 
in this sunrise industry.
Your Company currently has a significant grasp of the nuances 
of the new growth scenario, and we are utilising this knowledge 
25
 From the Chairman’s Desk
24
27
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
CIN: L74899DL1995PLC073281
Registered Office: 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
Corporate Office: B-206A, Sector-81, Phase-II, Noida-201305, Uttar Pradesh
Tel: +91-120-4093901
Website: www.ppapco.in; E-mail Id: investorservice@ppapco.com
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the 28th Annual General Meeting 
(“AGM”) of PPAP Automotive Limited (“Company”) will be held 
through Video Conferencing (“VC”) or Other Audio Visual Means 
(“OAVM”), on Friday, 15th September, 2023 at 11:30 A.M. to 
transact the following business. 
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. 
To receive, consider and adopt:
 
a) 
 The audited standalone financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2023, 
together with the reports of the Board of Directors and 
Auditors’ thereon; and 
 
b) 
 The audited consolidated financial statements of the 
Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 2023, 
together with the Report of the Auditors thereon.
2. 
 To declare final dividend of ` 0.5/- (5%) and confirm payment 
of interim dividend of ` 1/- (10%) per equity share (face value 
of `10/- each) for the financial year ended 31st March, 2023.
3. 
 To appoint a Director in place of Mr. Abhishek Jain (DIN: 
00137651), Chief Executive officer and Managing Director 
who retires by rotation and being eligible, offers himself for 
re-appointment.
4. 
 Appointment of M/s TR Chadha & Co LLP, Chartered 
Accountants as Statutory Auditors and fixing of their 
remuneration for a term of five consecutive years
 
 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution: 
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Sections 139, 141, 142 and 
other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 (the “Act”) and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) 
Rules, 2014, including any amendment(s), statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being 
in force and upon recommendations of the Audit Committee 
and the Board of Directors of the Company (the “Board”) , the 
approval of the members of the Company be and is hereby 
accorded to appoint M/s TR Chadha & Co LLP, Chartered 
Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 006711N/ N500028), 
as the Statutory Auditors of the Company from the conclusion 
of the 28th Annual General Meeting of the Company to hold 
such office for a period of 5 (five) consecutive years till 
the conclusion of the 33rd Annual General Meeting of the 
Company, at a remuneration of ` 20,00,000 (` Twenty Lakhs 
only) with the authority to Board of Directors to vary, alter, 
enhance or widen the remuneration payable to the Statutory 
Auditors, for the said tenure, from time to time, pursuant to 
the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Board of Directors and/ or 
key managerial personnel of the Company be and is hereby 
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as 
may be considered necessary or desirable for the purpose of 
giving effect to the above resolution.”
SPECIAL BUSINESS
5. 
 Re-appointment of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman and 
Manging Director of the Company.
 
 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), 
the 
following 
resolution 
as 
Special 
Resolution: 
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of Sections 
196, 197, 203, Schedule V and other applicable provisions, 
if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time being 
in force) and Regulation 17(6) and other applicable provisions 
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015, approval of the members of the Company be and is 
hereby accorded to re-appointment of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain 
(DIN: 00148839) as Chairman and Managing Director of the 
Company, not liable to retire by rotation, for a term of 3 years 
from 1st November, 2023 to 31st October, 2026.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the terms and conditions of 
re-appointment of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain (DIN: 00148839) as 
Chairman and Managing Director of the Company are as follows:
 
A. 
Basic Salary: 
 
 
 ` 5.00 Lacs per month with the authority to the Board 
of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Board’ which 
term shall include a duly constituted Committee of 
Directors) to determine the salary and grant increases 
from time to time considering the performance of the 
Company, subject to a ceiling of ` 20.00 Lacs per month. 
 
B. 
Commission: 
 
 
 Maximum up to 2% of net profit before tax of the company 
as calculated under the provisions of section 198 of the 
Companies Act, 2013. 
 
C. 
Perquisites & Allowances: 
 
 
 Perquisites are classified into three categories viz A, B 
and C follows.
 
Category A
 
i. 
Housing:
 
 
a. 
 The expenditure incurred by the Company on hiring 
furnished accommodation for the Chairman & 
Managing Director.
 
 
b. 
 In case no accommodation is provided by the 
Company, the Chairman & Managing Director shall 
be entitled to House Rent Allowance @ 50% of the 
salary.
Corporate Overview | Notice | Management Reports | Financial Statements
in our businesses. We are leaving no stone unturned to secure 
new profitable business from our existing customers and are also 
attracting new customers by showcasing our technology through 
technology shows being conducted at our customers’ premises.
Now coming to our various business segments, our commercial 
tool room has been reformed and stabilised. It is now fully geared 
up to deliver the desired results, in the coming years, in terms of 
growth and profitability. 
Our aftermarket business too has been stabilised and today it 
is getting into its full swing. We are continuously expanding our 
product offerings and we are incessantly improving our outreach 
to customers across the country through our numerous channel 
partners. 
Our Industrial products division is also finding its Ikegai. During 
the coming year, we will achieve significant breakthroughs in this 
segment, and this too will become a key strategic growth area 
for our group.
The electric two-wheeler industry is going through a 
transformation on account of reforms due to new safety 
guidelines, as well as the revision of the incentive schemes due 
to which our Lithium-ion battery business witnessed disruptions. 
To de-risk this aspect, your Company has developed solutions 
for three-wheeler industry, as well as for energy storage systems. 
These products are expected to blossom in the coming years and 
will make considerable positive contributions. 
Your Company’s joint venture company has been facing an 
existential crisis for some time due to high raw material prices 
and low selling prices. With the efforts we have made during 
the course of the year, I am confident that we will overcome 
this situation, and we will see positive contributions as we are 
restructuring the management, reducing our raw material costs 
and improving our selling prices.   
Friends, till a few years ago, we use to hear about climate change. 
Today, we are living through it. The weather around us has 
changed. It rains when it is supposed to be sunny, and it snows 
when it is supposed to be warm. Every year, there are floods 
happening in various parts of the world. The climate change has 
already happened. Our fears have become a reality. It is high 
time that all of us realize this reality and make our contribution 
towards minimizing the damages being done to our environment. 
The climate change has put a humongous responsibility on all 
of us towards conserving our natural resources and working in 
harmony with nature. As responsible inhabitants of our planet 
Earth, we all have to reevaluate our ways of working and bring 
out Kaizen points towards this cause on an urgent basis. There 
are limited chances that we can reverse the damage already 
done, but there are chances that we can limit the damages and 
not make it worse. We must act now, so that we can leave a 
conducive environment for our children to live in.
Sustainability has long been integrated into our decision-
making process across the board to mitigate risks, maximise 
opportunities, create long-lasting operating models, and effect 
positive change thereby creating value for all our stakeholders.
We have sharpened our focus on ESG practices. Your Company 
continues with its advances towards this goal, to reduce 
environmental impact from its manufacturing operations, with 
efficient water conservation, zero effluent discharge, increased 
use of renewable power and biofuels in its manufacturing plants.
Through your Company's CSR activities, there is a constant 
focus on enriching people's lives in areas of environment, 
education, and health. During FY 2023, your Company has 
spent more than its CSR’s financial obligation. Your Company 
is supporting biodiversity parks by planting and sustaining the 
plantation of native trees to improve the environmental conditions 
in its neighbourhood. 
Your Company is ingraining robust governance, risk management 
and compliance practices across all businesses and support 
functions to uphold its reputation as a trusted Company, for all 
its stakeholders. 
During this year, there was an 48.83% increase in the net profit of 
the Company. Revenue of your Company has grown by 20.35% 
and EBITA witnessed an increase of 19.02% during FY23.
I am happy to state that the Board of Directors of your Company 
have recommended a dividend of ` 0.5 per Equity Share of face 
value of ` 10 each of for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, 
subject to approval of the shareholders at this Annual General 
Meeting.
In conclusion, I want to express my profound appreciation for your 
unwavering support and your confidence in the management 
of your Company. I would also like to thank our customers for 
the business they give to us, our suppliers for providing us with 
uninterrupted supplies, and last but not the least a big thank you 
to all our sincere and dedicated employees.
Thank you!
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
 From the Chairman’s Desk
26
29
Corporate Overview | Notice | Management Reports | Financial Statements
Notes:
1. 
 In compliance with the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) 
Circular No. 14/2020 dated 8th April, 2020, Circular No.17/2020 
dated 13th April, 2020, Circular No. 20/2020 dated 5th May, 
2020, Circular No. 02/2021 dated 13th January, 2021, Circular 
No. 19/2021 dated 8th December, 2021, Circular No. 21/2021 
dated 14th December, 2021, Circular No.2/2022 dated 5th 
May, 2022 and Circular No. 11/2022 dated 28th December, 
2022, and Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) 
SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/CIR/P/2020/79 
dated 12th May, 2020, SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/
CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated 15th January, 2021, SEBI 
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2022/62 dated 13th 
May, 2022 and SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD-2/P/
CIR/2023/4 dated 5th January, 2023 (hereinafter referred 
to as (“Circulars”), Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will be 
held through Video Conferencing (VC) or Other Audio Visual 
Means (OAVM), without physical presence of members. 
Deemed venue of the AGM shall be the Registered Office of 
the Company i.e. 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New 
Delhi-110020.
2. 
 The Board of Directors have considered and decided to 
include the item no. 5 to 7 given above as special business in 
the 28th AGM, as they are unavoidable in nature. Explanatory 
statement pursuant to the provisions of Section 102 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in respect of item no. 5 to 7 
of the notice are annexed hereto. 
3. 
 Pursuant to the MCA Circulars since the physical attendance 
of members has been dispensed with, there is no requirement 
of appointment of proxies. Accordingly, the facility of 
appointment of proxies by members under Section 105 of the 
Act will not be available for the 28th AGM. Hence, proxy form 
and attendance slip are not annexed to this notice.
4. 
 Corporate / Institutional Shareholders are entitled to appoint 
authorized representatives to attend the AGM through 
VC/OAVM on their behalf and cast their votes through 
remote e-voting or through e-voting at the AGM. Corporate 
/ Institutional Shareholders intending to authorize their 
representatives to participate and vote at the AGM are 
requested to send a certified copy of the board resolution 
/ authorization letter to the scrutinizer at e-mail ID chetan.
gupta@apacandassociates.com with a copy marked to the 
Company at investorservice@ppapco.com, authorizing its 
representative(s) to attend and vote through VC / OAVM on 
their behalf at the AGM, pursuant to section 113 of the Act.
5. 
 In line with the Circulars, the annual report including notice 
of the 28th AGM of the Company, inter alia, indicating the 
process and manner of e-voting is being sent only by email, 
to all the members whose email address are registered with 
the Company/ Depository Participant (DP). The Company 
shall send the physical copy of annual report 2022-23 to 
those Members who request the same at investorservice@
ppapco.com mentioning their Folio No./DP ID and Client ID.
 
 Further, in terms of the applicable provisions of the Act, 
Listing Regulations, read with the Circulars, the annual report 
including notice of the 28th AGM of the Company will also be 
available on the website of the Company at www.ppapco.in. 
The same can also be accessed from the websites of the 
stock exchange i.e. BSE Limited at www.bseindia.com and 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.nseindia.
com respectively and on the website of Link Intime India 
Private Limited, i.e. https://instavote.linkintime.co.in.
6. 
 The facility of participation at the AGM through VC will 
be made available for 1,000 Members on first come first 
served basis. However, this number does not include the 
large Shareholders i.e. Shareholders holding 2% or more 
shareholding, Promoters, Institutional Investors, Directors, 
Key Managerial Personnel, the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee, Nomination and Remuneration Committee and 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Auditors etc. who are 
allowed to attend the AGM without restriction on account of 
first come first served basis.
7. 
 Since this AGM is being held through VC / OAVM, the route 
map for this AGM is not annexed with this notice.
8. 
 The Company has engaged the services of Link Intime India 
Private Limited, Registrar and Share Transfer Agent (“RTA”) 
as the authorized agency for conducting this AGM through 
VC or OAVM and to provide e-voting facility for the AGM.
9. 
 Members attending the AGM through VC / OAVM shall be 
counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum as per the 
provisions of section 103 of the Act.
10.  The register of members and share transfer books of the 
Company will remain closed from Saturday, 9th September, 
2023 to Thursday, 14th September, 2023 (both days inclusive) 
for the purpose of the AGM and final dividend. 
11.  In case of joint holders, the member whose name appears 
as the first holder in the order of names as per the register of 
members of the Company will be entitled to vote during the 
AGM and dividend.
12.  Relevant details of Director as required under Regulation 
36(3) of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard on 
General Meeting (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India (“ICSI”) in respect of Director seeking 
re-appointment is separately annexed with this notice as 
‘Annexure-1’.
13.  In terms of the provisions of Regulation 40 of the Securities 
and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) and various 
notifications issued in this regard, requests for effecting 
transfer of securities shall not be processed from 1st April, 
2019 unless the securities are held in the dematerialized 
form with the depositories, except in case of request received 
for transmission or transposition and re-lodged transfers of 
shares. 
14.  Registers of Directors & Key Managerial Personnel and 
their shareholding, Register of Contracts and other relevant 
documents referred to in the accompanying notice calling the 
AGM would be available for inspection by the shareholders 
electronically on VC / OAVM platform during the AGM.
15.  Pursuant to the amendments in the Income Tax Act 1961, 
dividend income is taxable in the hands of the shareholders 
from 1st April 2020 and the company is required to deduct 
tax at source (“TDS”) from dividend paid to the members 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
28
 
ii. 
 The expenditure incurred by the Company on gas, 
electricity, water and furnishing shall be valued as per 
the Income Tax Rules, 1962.
 
iii. 
 Medical reimbursement: Expenses incurred on medical 
treatment for self and family members, whether in India 
or abroad.
 
iv. 
 Leave travel concession: For self and his family, once a 
year, incurred in accordance with any rules specified by 
the Company.
 
v. 
 Club fees: Fees of clubs, subject to a maximum of two 
clubs. This will not include admission and life membership 
fees.
 
vi. 
 Personal accident insurance: Premium on personal 
accident policy for self and his family.
 
vii.  Any other perquisites and allowances as may be 
determined by the Board of the Company from time to 
time within the overall limits specified in the Companies 
Act, 2013.
 
 For the purpose of Category A, family means the spouse, the 
dependent children and dependent parents of Chairman & 
Managing Director.
 
Category B
 
i. 
 Contribution to Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund or 
Annuity Fund per the rules of the Company.
 
ii. 
 Gratuity payable shall be calculated as per the provisions 
of The Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and amendment 
thereof.
 
iii. 
 Entitlement for leave with full pay or encashment thereof 
as per policy of the Company.
 
Category C
 
i. 
 Provision of mobile, telephone, internet for official and 
personal use.
 
ii. 
 Car with driver maintained for business and personal 
use.
 
 The perquisites shall be valued as per the Income Tax Rules, 
1962, wherever provided or applicable and in the absence of 
any such rules, perquisites shall be evaluated at cost
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT in the event of any loss or 
inadequacy of profits of the Company in any financial year 
during the period of 3 years from the date of appointment i.e., 
1st November 2023 to 31st October 2026, the remuneration 
mentioned above shall be paid to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain (DIN: 
00148839) as minimum remuneration.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT approval of members be and 
is hereby accorded in terms of Section 196 of the Companies 
Act, 2013, for continuation of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain as Chairman 
and Managing Director, who will attain the age of 70 years in 
the financial year 2025-26.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Board of Directors and/ or 
key managerial personnel of the Company be and is hereby 
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as 
may be considered necessary or desirable for the purpose of 
giving effect to the above resolution.”
6. 
 Waiver of excess remuneration paid to Mr. Ajay Kumar 
Jain, Chairman and Managing Director of the Company 
during the financial year 2022-23.
 
 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as a Special 
Resolution: 
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of section 
197, 198 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and Schedule V thereto 
and the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, (including any statutory 
amendment(s), modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for 
the time being in force), and upon the recommendations of 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and the Board of 
Directors of the Company, the approval of the members of 
the Company be and is hereby accorded to ratify and confirm 
waiver of recovery of excess managerial remuneration of ` 
64.97 Lakhs (Rupees Sixty-four lakh ninety-seven thousand 
only) paid to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain (DIN: 00148839), Chairman 
& Managing Director of the Company for the financial year 
2022-23, due to inadequacy of profit in the said financial year.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT Board of Directors and/ or 
key managerial personnel of the Company be and is hereby 
authorized to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as 
may be considered necessary or desirable for the purpose of 
giving effect to the above resolution.”
7. 
 Ratification of remuneration of the Cost Auditor for the 
financial year 2023-24.
 
 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, with or without 
modification(s), the following resolution as an Ordinary 
Resolution: 
 
 “RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provision of section 148 
and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 
2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 
2014, (including any amendment, modification(s) or variation 
thereto, for the time being in force) the members hereby ratify 
the remuneration of ` 1,75,000/- (Rupees One lakh seventy 
five thousand only), exclusive of applicable taxes, payable to 
Jangira & Associates, (Firm Registration No. 103597) Cost 
Accountants, New Delhi, who have been appointed by the Board 
of Directors on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, 
as Cost Auditors of the Company, to conduct the audit of the 
cost records maintained by the Company, as prescribed under 
the Companies (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014, as 
amended from time to time, for the financial year 2023-24.
 
 RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board of Directors and/or 
key managerial personnel of the Company be and are hereby 
authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as 
may be deemed necessary, desirable, proper or expedient for 
the purpose of giving effect to the above resolution.”
By order of the Board
For PPAP Automotive Limited
 
Place: Noida
Pankhuri Agarwal
Date: 12th August, 2023
Company Secretary
ACS:59103
31
registration process as guided therein. The members are requested to provide details such as Name, DPID, Client ID/ PAN, 
mobile number and e-mail id and also upload the image of CML,PAN, Aadhar Card & Form ISR-1 in PDF or JPEG format (upto 
1 MB). On submission of the shareholders details an OTP will be received by the shareholder which needs to be entered in the 
link for verification.
22. Voting through electronic means:
 
I. 
 The businesses as set out in the notice may be transacted through electronic voting system and the Company will provide a 
facility for voting through electronic means. The facility of e-voting shall be provided by the RTA.
 
II. 
 The remote e-voting period begins on Monday, 11th September, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends on Thursday, 14th September, 
2023 (05:00 p.m. IST). During this period, members of the Company, holding shares either in physical form or in dematerialized 
form, as on the cut-off date of Friday, 8th September, 2023, may cast their vote electronically. The remote e-voting module shall 
be disabled by RTA for voting thereafter. A person who is not a member on cut-off date should treat this notice for information 
purpose only.
 
III.  The members who have cast their vote by remote e-voting prior to the AGM may also attend the AGM but shall not be entitled 
to cast their vote again at the AGM.
 
IV. 
 Members who have acquired shares of the Company after the dispatch of this notice and holding shares as on the cut-off date 
may approach the Company / RTA at enotices@linkintime.co.in for issuance of User ID and Password for exercising their right 
to vote by electronic means.
 
V. 
 The members present in the AGM through VC / OAVM facility and have not cast their vote on the resolutions through remote 
e-voting, shall be eligible to vote during the AGM through Insta Poll.
 
VI.  A member can opt for only single mode of voting i.e. through remote e-voting or Insta Poll. If a member casts vote(s) by both 
modes, then voting done through remote e-voting shall prevail and vote(s) cast at the AGM shall be treated as “INVALID”.
 
VII.  In compliance with the provisions of section 108 of the Act, Rule 20 of the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 
2014 as amended, Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations and SS-2 issued by the ICSI, the members are provided with the 
facility to cast their vote electronically, through the e-voting services provided by RTA, on the resolutions set forth in this notice. 
The Company has appointed Mr. Chetan Gupta, Practicing Company Secretary (CP No. 7077) and Managing Partner at APAC 
& Associates LLP, Company Secretaries, as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the voting and remote e-voting process in a fair and 
transparent manner.
 
VIII.  The Scrutinizer shall after the conclusion of voting at the AGM, will first count the votes cast at the meeting and thereafter 
unblock the votes cast through remote e-voting in the presence of at least two witnesses not in the employment of the Company 
and shall make, not later than two working days of the conclusion of the AGM, a consolidated scrutinizer’s report of the total 
votes cast in favour or against, if any, to the Chairman or a person authorized by him in writing, who shall countersign the same 
and declare the result of the voting forthwith. 
 
IX.  The results shall be declared not later than two working days from conclusion of the meeting by posting the same on the 
website of the Company (www.ppapco.com), website of RTA (https://instavote.linkintime.co.in) and by filing with the BSE Ltd. 
and National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. It shall also be displayed on the Notice Board at the Registered Office & Corporate 
Office of the Company. 
 
X. 
 Subject to receipt of requisite number of votes, the resolution shall be deemed to be passed on the date of the AGM i.e. 15th 
September, 2023.
23.  Process and manner for attending the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet:
 
1. 
 Open the internet browser and launch the URL: https://instameet.linkintime.co.in 
 
Ø 
 Select the “Company” and ‘Event Date’ and register with your following details: - 
 
 
A. 
 Demat Account No. or Folio No: Enter your 16 digit Demat Account No. or Folio No
 
 
 
• 
 Shareholders/ members holding shares in CDSL demat account shall provide 16 Digit Beneficiary ID
 
 
 
•  
 Shareholders/ members holding shares in NSDL demat account shall provide 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit 
Client ID
 
 
 
•  
 Shareholders/ members holding shares in physical form shall provide Folio Number registered with the Company 
 
 
B. 
 PAN: Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Members who have not updated their PAN with the Depository 
Participant (DP)/ Company shall use the sequence number provided to you, if applicable).
 
 
C. 
Mobile No.: Enter your mobile number. 
 
 
D. 
 Email ID: Enter your email id, as recorded with your DP/Company. 
 
Ø 
 Click “Go to Meeting” (You are now registered for InstaMeet and your attendance is marked for the meeting).
Corporate Overview | Notice | Management Reports | Financial Statements
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
30
at prescribed rates. The members are requested to submit 
requisite documents on the https://web.linkintime.co.in/
formsreg/submission-of-form-15g-15h.html 
on 
or 
before 
Tuesday, 12th September, 2023 to enable the Company to 
determine the appropriate TDS rate applicable. For details, 
members may refer to the Communication related to 
“Communication to shareholders-Tax Deduction on Dividend” 
available in the “Investors” section on the website of the 
Company at www.ppapco.in.
16.  The members desirous of seeking any information on the 
financial statements or any matter to be placed at the AGM, 
are requested to write to the Company on or before Tuesday, 
12th September, 2023 on investorservice@ppapco.com. The 
same will be replied by the Company suitably.
17.  SEBI vide its Circular dated 16th March, 2023 mandated 
furnishing of PAN, KYC details (i.e. postal address with pin 
code, email address, mobile number, bank account details) 
and Nomination details by holders of physical securities. It 
may be noted that any service request or complaint can be 
processed only after the folio is KYC compliant.
 
 In terms of above Circular, folios of physical shareholders 
wherein any one of the said details such as PAN, email 
address, mobile number, bank account and nomination are 
not available, shall be frozen with effect from 1st October, 
2023 and such physical shareholders will not be eligible to 
lodge grievances or avail service requests from the RTA of 
the Company and will not be eligible for receipt of dividend 
in physical mode until the said details are furnished. The 
concerned shareholders are requested to register/ update the 
above mentioned details by submitting the prescribed forms 
duly filled and signed by the registered holders, by submitting 
a physical copy thereof to the RTA, Link Intime India Private 
Limited, having its office at Noble Heights, 1st floor, Plot No 
NH-2, C-1 Block, LSC, Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri, New 
Delhi - 110058 or Corporate Office of the Company.
 
 Further, shareholders holding shares in physical form are 
requested to ensure that their PAN is linked to Aadhaar to 
avoid freezing of folios.
18.  Members may please note that SEBI vide its Circular No. 
SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 
dated 
25th January, 2022 has mandated the Listed Companies to 
issue securities in demat form only while processing service 
requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim 
from Unclaimed Suspense Account; Renewal/ Exchange of 
securities certificate; Endorsement; Subdivision/ Splitting of 
securities certificate; Consolidation of securities certificates/ 
folios; 
Transmission 
and 
Transposition. 
Accordingly, 
Shareholders are requested to make service requests by 
submitting a duly filled and signed Form ISR – 4, the format 
of which is available on the Company’s website. It may be 
noted that any service request can be processed only after 
the folio is KYC compliant. 
19.  Final dividend for the financial year ended 31st March, 2023, 
as recommended by the Board of Directors, if approved, by 
the members at the AGM, will be paid within 30 days from the 
date of AGM, to those members whose names appear in the 
register of members as on Friday, 08th September, 2023.
20.  Members who have not so far en-cashed their dividend paid 
by the Company upto and during the financial year ended 
31st March, 2023, may immediately approach the Company 
/ RTA for claiming dividend amount. Information in respect 
of the unclaimed dividend as on 31st March, 2023, will be 
uploaded on the website of Investor Education and Protection 
Fund (“IEPF”) of the Government (www.iepf.gov.in) and on 
the website of the Company (www.ppapco.in). Dividends, if 
not en-cashed for a consecutive period of 7 years, from the 
date of transfer to unpaid/ unclaimed dividend account of 
the Company, are liable to be transferred to IEPF. Further, 
the shares of a member who does not en-cash his dividend 
for a continuous period of 7 years, are also liable to be 
transferred to the Demat account of IEPF Authority. In view 
of this, members, who have not yet claimed their dividend, 
are requested to claim their dividends from the Company 
/ RTA, within the stipulated timeline. The members, whose 
unclaimed dividends / shares have been transferred to IEPF, 
may claim the same as well as the corresponding dividend by 
making an application to the IEPF Authority, in Form IEPF-5 
available on www.iepf.gov.in.
21.  Process for updating / registration of email address and 
mobile numbers and updation of bank account details:
 
 Process for updating email addresses and bank account 
details:
 
a) 
Registration for physical shareholders:
 
 
 The Members of the Company holding Equity Shares 
of the Company in physical form and who have not 
registered their e-mail addresses may get their e-mail 
addresses registered with Link Intime India Pvt Ltd, by 
clicking the link: https://web.linkintime.co.in/EmailReg/
Email_Register.html and follow the registration process 
as guided therein. The members are requested to 
provide details such as Name, Folio Number, Certificate 
number, PAN, mobile number and e mail id and also 
upload the image of PAN, Aadhar Card, share certificate 
& Form ISR-1 in PDF or JPEG format (upto 1 MB). On 
submission of the shareholders details an OTP will be 
received by the shareholder which needs to be entered 
in the link for verification.
 
 
 For updation of bank account details members are 
requested to send ISR-1 the format of which is available 
on the website of the Company at www.ppapco.in. 
 
b) 
Registration for Demat shareholders
 
 
 Members holding shares in Demat form for permanent 
registration of e-mail address and bank account details 
are requested to register their e-mail address and bank 
account details in respect of demat holdings with the 
respective Depository Participant (DP) by following the 
procedure prescribed by the Depository Participant.
 
 
 The Members of the Company holding Equity Shares 
of the Company in Demat Form and who have not 
registered their e-mail addresses may temporarily 
get their e-mail addresses registered with Link Intime 
India Pvt Ltd by clicking the link: https://web.linkintime.
co.in/EmailReg/Email_Register.html and follow the 
33
be able to see e-Voting services under Value added services. Click on “Access to e-Voting” under e-Voting services and 
you will be able to see e-Voting page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider name i.e. LINKINTIME and you 
will be re-directed to “InstaVote” website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
 
 
(ii)  If you are not registered for IDeAS e-Services, option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com Select “Register 
Online for IDeAS Portal” or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp
 
 
(iii)  Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either 
on a personal computer or on a mobile. Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” 
which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. 
your sixteen-digit demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the 
screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-Voting 
page. Click on company name or e-Voting service provider name i.e. LINKINTIME and you will be redirected to “InstaVote” 
website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
 
2. 
 Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with CDSL
 
 
(i) 
 Users who have opted for CDSL Easi / Easiest facility, can login through their existing user id and password. The option 
will be made available to reach e-Voting page without any further authentication. The users to login Easi / Easiest are 
requested to visit CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon & New System Myeasi Tab and then use your 
existing my easi username & password.
 
 
(ii)  After successful login the Easi / Easiest user will be able to see the e-Voting option for eligible companies where the 
evoting is in progress as per the information provided by the company. On clicking the evoting option, the user will be able 
to see e-Voting page of the e-Voting service provider i.e. LINKINTIME for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting 
period or joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting. Additionally, there are also links provided to access the 
system of all e-Voting Service Providers, so that the user can visit the e-Voting service providers’ website directly.
 
 
(iii)  If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, the option to register is available at CDSL website www.cdslindia.com and 
click on login & New System Myeasi Tab and then click on registration option.
 
 
(iv)  Alternatively, the user can directly access the e-Voting page by providing Demat Account Number and PAN No. from 
a e-Voting link available on www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on 
registered Mobile & Email as recorded in the Demat Account. After successful authentication, the user will be able to see 
the e-Voting option where the evoting is in progress and also able to directly access the system of all e-Voting Service 
Providers.
 
3. 
 Individual Shareholders (holding securities in demat mode) login through their depository participants
 
 
 You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your Depository Participant registered with NSDL/
CDSL for e-Voting facility. After Successful login, you will be able to see e-Voting option. Once you click on e-Voting option, you 
will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-Voting feature. Click 
on the company name or e-Voting service provider name i.e. LinkIntime and you will be redirected to e-Voting service provider 
website for casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
 
 
 Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in physical form/ Non-Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode is given below:
 
 
 Individual Shareholders of the company, holding shares in physical form / Non-Individual Shareholders holding securities in 
demat mode as on the cut-off date for e-voting may register for e-Voting facility of Link Intime as under:
 
 
1. 
 Open the internet browser and launch the URL: https://instavote.linkintime.co.in 
 
 
2. 
 Click on “Sign Up” under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab and register with your following details: - 
 
 
 
A. 
 User ID: Shareholders holding shares in physical form shall provide Event No + Folio Number registered with the 
Company. Shareholders holding shares in NSDL demat account shall provide 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit 
Client ID; Shareholders holding shares in CDSL demat account shall provide 16 Digit Beneficiary ID.
 
 
 
B.   PAN: Enter your 10-digit Permanent Account Number (PAN) (Shareholders who have not updated their PAN with the 
Depository Participant (DP)/ Company shall use the sequence number provided to you, if applicable. 
 
 
 
C.   DOB/DOI: Enter the Date of Birth (DOB) / Date of Incorporation (DOI) (As recorded with your DP / Company - in DD/
MM/YYYY format) 
Corporate Overview | Notice | Management Reports | Financial Statements
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
32
 
 Instructions for Shareholders/ Members to Speak during the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet:
 
1. 
 Shareholders who would like to speak during the meeting must register their request on or before Tuesday, 12th September, 
2023 with the company on the investorservice@ppapco.com for the general meeting. 
 
2. 
 Shareholders will get confirmation on first cum first basis. 
 
3. 
 Shareholders will receive “speaking serial number” once they mark attendance for the meeting.
 
4. 
 Other shareholder may ask questions to the panellist, via active chat-board during the meeting.
 
5. 
 Please remember speaking serial number and start your conversation with panellist by switching on video mode and audio of 
your device.
 
 Shareholders are requested to speak only when moderator of the meeting/ management will announce the name and serial number 
for speaking. 
 
Instructions for Shareholders/ Members to Vote during the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet:
 
 Once the electronic voting is activated by the scrutinizer/ moderator during the meeting, members who have not exercised their vote 
through the remote e-voting can cast the vote as under:
 
1. 
 On the Shareholders VC page, click on the link for e-Voting “Cast your vote”
 
2. 
 Enter your 16 digit Demat Account No. / Folio No. and OTP (received on the registered mobile number/ registered email Id) 
received during registration for InstaMEET and click on ‘Submit’. 
 
3. 
 After successful login, you will see “Resolution Description” and against the same the option “Favour/ Against” for voting. 
 
4. 
 Cast your vote by selecting appropriate option i.e. “Favour/Against” as desired. Enter the number of shares (which represents 
no. of votes) as on the cut-off date under ‘Favour/Against’.
 
5. 
 After selecting the appropriate option i.e. Favour/Against as desired and you have decided to vote, click on “Save”. A confirmation 
box will be displayed. If you wish to confirm your vote, click on “Confirm”, else to change your vote, click on “Back” and 
accordingly modify your vote. 
 
6. 
 Once you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not be allowed to modify or change your vote subsequently.
 
 Note: Shareholders/ Members, who will be present in the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet facility and have not casted 
their vote on the Resolutions through remote e-Voting and are otherwise not barred from doing so, shall be eligible to vote through 
e-Voting facility during the meeting. Shareholders/ Members who have voted through Remote e-Voting prior to the Annual General 
Meeting will be eligible to attend/ participate in the Annual General Meeting through InstaMeet. However, they will not be eligible to 
vote again during the meeting. 
 
 Shareholders/ Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through Tablets/ Laptops connected through broadband for better 
experience.
 
 Shareholders/ Members are required to use Internet with a good speed (preferably 2 MBPS download stream) to avoid any 
disturbance during the meeting.
 
 Please note that Shareholders/ Members connecting from Mobile Devices or Tablets or through Laptops connecting via Mobile 
Hotspot may experience Audio/Visual loss due to fluctuation in their network. It is therefore recommended to use stable Wi-FI or LAN 
connection to mitigate any kind of aforesaid glitches.
 
 In case shareholders/ members have any queries regarding login/ e-voting, they may send an email to instameet@linkintime.co.in 
or contact Mr. Rajiv Ranjan, Asst. Vice President, C-101, 247 Park, L.B.S. Marg, Vikhroli (West) Mumbai 400083, contact no. 022-
49186000 and email-enotices@linkintime.co.in.
24. Remote e-Voting Instructions for shareholders:
 
 As per the SEBI circular dated 9th December, 2020, individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode can register directly 
with the depository or will have the option of accessing various ESP portals directly from their demat accounts.
 
 Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
 
1. 
 Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with NSDL
 
 
(i) 
 Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL viz... https://eservices.nsdl.com either on a personal computer 
or on a mobile. On the e-Services home page click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login”” which is available under 
‘IDeAS’ section, this will prompt you to enter your existing User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will 
35
 
 
Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode with NSDL/ CDSL has forgotten the password: 
 
 
 Shareholders who are unable to retrieve User ID/ Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password option 
available at abovementioned depository/ depository participants website.
 
 
Ø 
 It is strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your password 
confidential. 
 
 
Ø 
 For shareholders/ members holding shares in physical form, the details can be used only for voting on the resolutions 
contained in this Notice.
 
 
Ø 
 During the voting period, shareholders/ members can login any number of time till they have voted on the resolution(s) for 
a particular “Event”.
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT AS REQUIRED UNDER SECTION 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013.
ITEM NO.4
M/s OP Bagla & Co LLP Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 000018N / N500091) will complete their term as Statutory 
Auditors of the Company and will hold the office till the conclusion of the ensuing Annual General Meeting. 
The Audit Committee and the Board of Directors has recommended the appointment of M/s TR Chadha & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants 
(ICAI Firm Registration No. 006711N/ N500028), as the Statutory Auditors of the Company from the conclusion of the 28th Annual General 
Meeting of the Company to hold such office for a period of 5 (five) consecutive years till the conclusion of the 33rd Annual General Meeting 
of the Company at a remuneration of ` 20,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs only).
The Company has received from M/s TR Chadha & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants the consent for appointment and declaration stating 
that they are not disqualified from acting as statutory auditors if they are appointed by the members. They have further confirmed that 
their appointment, if made, would be within the limits laid down by the Companies Act, 2013.
The details required to be disclosed under Regulation 36(5) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and 
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (as amended) are as under:
Proposed fees payable to the 
Statutory Auditor(s)
` 20,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty Lakhs only) 
Terms of appointment
Appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company from the conclusion of the 28th Annual General 
Meeting of the Company to hold such office for a period of 5 (five) consecutive years till the conclusion 
of the 33rd Annual General Meeting of the Company
In case of a new auditor, any 
material change in the fee 
payable to such auditor from 
that paid to the outgoing auditor 
along with the rationale for such 
change
There is no material change in the fee payable to M/s TR Chadha & Co LLP from that of M/s OP 
Bagla & Co LLP. 
The proposed remuneration is commensurable with the size of the Company and nature of its 
business. The proposed remuneration is determined based on the recommendation of the Audit 
Committee which peruses the industry benchmarks in general, profile of the firm, scope of audit and 
other relevant factors.
Basis of recommendation for 
appointment
The Board of Directors and the Audit Committee, at their respective meetings held on 12th August, 
2023, have considered various parameters like capability to serve a widespread business landscape 
as that of the Company, audit experience in the manufacturing industry, market standing of the firm, 
clientele served, technical knowledge, governance standards, etc., and found M/s TR Chadha & Co 
LLP suitable for this appointment and accordingly, recommend the same.
Credentials of the Statutory 
Auditor(s) 
proposed 
to 
be 
appointed
M/s TR Chadha & Co LLP Chartered accountancy firm, with over 76 years of history, has been 
providing industry expertise to numerous multinationals as well as reputed Indian companies. The 
firm has since been committed to offer wide array of services spanning across Assurance services, 
Internal Audit & Risk Advisory, Direct, Indirect, and international Taxation & Consultancy Services.
None of the Directors and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or their respective relatives are in any way concerned or interested 
in the aforesaid resolution.
ITEM NO. 5
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain was appointed as the Chairman & Managing Director of the Company for a period of five years effective 1st November, 
2018 to 31st October, 2023, not liable to retire by rotation, and the said appointment was approved by the members on 23rd August, 2018.
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain is a Commerce Graduate from the prestigious Shriram College of Commerce, Delhi. He is associated with the 
Company since inception with experience of over 45 years in polymer processing industry and over 30 years in the automotive industry. 
He has served as the President of Honda Cars India Suppliers Club in the year 2011-12. He has also served as the Vice President of 
Toyota Kirloskar Suppliers’ Association from 2006-2015. Currently, he is the President of Toyota Kirloskar Suppliers’ Association.
Corporate Overview | Notice | Management Reports | Financial Statements
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
34
 
 
 
D.   Bank Account Number: Enter your Bank Account Number (last four digits), as recorded with your DP/Company. 
 
 
 
 
* 
 Shareholders holding shares in physical form but have not recorded ‘C’ and ‘D’, shall provide their Folio number 
in ‘D’ above
 
 
 
 
* 
 Shareholders holding shares in NSDL form, shall provide ‘D’ above
 
 
 
 
 
Ø   Set the password of your choice (The password should contain minimum 8 characters, at least one special 
Character (@!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter). 
 
 
 
 
 
Ø   Click “confirm” (Your password is now generated). 
 
 
3. 
Click on ‘Login’ under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab.
 
 
4. 
 Enter your User ID, Password and Image Verification (CAPTCHA) Code and click on ‘Submit’. 
 
 
Cast your vote electronically:
 
 
1. 
 After successful login, you will be able to see the notification for e-voting. Select ‘View’ icon. 
 
 
2. 
E-voting page will appear. 
 
 
3. 
 Refer the Resolution description and cast your vote by selecting your desired option ‘Favour / Against’ (If you wish to view 
the entire Resolution details, click on the ‘View Resolution’ file link). 
 
 
4. 
 After selecting the desired option i.e. Favour / Against, click on ‘Submit’. A confirmation box will be displayed. If you wish to 
confirm your vote, click on ‘Yes’, else to change your vote, click on ‘No’ and accordingly modify your vote. 
 
 
Guidelines for Institutional shareholders:
 
 
 Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than Individuals, HUF, NRI etc.) and Custodians are required to log on the e-voting system 
of LIIPL at https://instavote.linkintime.co.in and register themselves as ‘Custodian / Mutual Fund / Corporate Body’. They are 
also required to upload a scanned certified true copy of the board resolution /authority letter/power of attorney etc. together with 
attested specimen signature of the duly authorised representative(s) in PDF format in the ‘Custodian / Mutual Fund / Corporate 
Body’ login for the Scrutinizer to verify the same. 
 
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in physical mode/ Institutional shareholders:
 
 
 Shareholders facing any technical issue in login may contact Link Intime INSTAVOTE helpdesk by sending a request at 
enotices@linkintime.co.in or contact on: - Tel: 022 – 4918 6000.
 
 
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode:
 
 
 Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode may contact the respective helpdesk for any technical issues related 
to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Login type 
Helpdesk details 
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with NSDL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact NSDL helpdesk by sending a 
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or call at : 022 - 4886 7000 and 022 - 2499 7000
Individual Shareholders holding 
securities in demat mode with CDSL 
Members facing any technical issue in login can contact CDSL helpdesk by sending 
a request at helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact at toll free no. 1800 22 55 33 
 
 
 Individual Shareholders holding securities in Physical mode has forgotten the password: 
 
 
 If an Individual Shareholders holding securities in Physical mode has forgotten the USER ID [Login ID] or Password or both 
then the shareholder can use the “Forgot Password” option available on the e-Voting website of Link Intime: https://instavote.
linkintime.co.in
 
 
o 
Click on ‘Login’ under ‘SHARE HOLDER’ tab and further Click ‘forgot password?’ 
 
 
o 
Enter User ID, select Mode and Enter Image Verification code (CAPTCHA). Click on “SUBMIT”.
 
 
 In case shareholders is having valid email address, Password will be sent to his / her registered e-mail address. Shareholders 
can set the password of his/her choice by providing the information about the particulars of the Security Question and Answer, 
PAN, DOB/DOI, Bank Account Number (last four digits) etc. as mentioned above. The password should contain minimum 8 
characters, at least one special character (@!#$&*), at least one numeral, at least one alphabet and at least one capital letter. 
 
 
 User ID for Shareholders holding shares in Physical Form (i.e. Share Certificate): Your User ID is Event No + Folio Number 
registered with the Company
37
c.
Recognition or awards
Under the dynamic leadership of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman and Managing 
Director, the Company has won several prestigious awards including Manufacturing 
Excellence by Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL), Overall Performance by MSIL, 
Target Accomplished in Quality by Honda Motors, Best Cost Performance Award 
by Toyota, Gold Award in QCC by Toyota, Best Kaizen Award in Delivery by 
Toyota, Appreciation Award from Hyundai and Machinist Super Shopfloor Award 
in the category of Excellence in manufacturing by world wide Media, a fully owned 
subsiding of the times of India Group etc.
d.
Job Profile and Suitability
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain is associated with the Company since inception with 
experience of over 45 years in polymer processing industry and over 30 years 
in the automotive industry. He controls the affairs of the Company under the 
direction of the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain has been 
instrumental in pressing forward the business. His sincerity, commitment and 
ideas have resulted in opening of new opportunities for the Company.
e.
Remuneration proposed
As mentioned in item no. 5
f.
Comparative 
remuneration, 
profile 
with respect to industry, size of the 
Company, profile of the position and 
person
Remuneration of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain commensurate with his qualifications, 
experience and with the remuneration levels in the industry and the responsibilities 
placed on him as Chairman and Managing Director of the Company
g.
Pecuniary 
relationship 
directly 
or 
indirectly 
with 
the 
Company, 
or 
relationship 
with 
the 
managerial 
personnel, if any.
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain owns 27.62% equity stake of the Company and with his 
other family members and relatives’ control 65.01% of equity share capital of the 
Company.
Mr. Abhishek Jain and Mrs. Vinay Kumar Jain are his relatives.
Other Information
a.
Reasons of loss or inadequate profits
NA
b.
Steps taken or proposed to be taken for 
improvement
NA
c.
Expected increase in productivity and 
profits in measurable terms
NA
Details of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain pursuant to the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure 
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India (“ICSI”) are provided in the ‘Aneexure-1’ to the Notice.
The Board recommends the special resolution set out at item no. 5 of the accompanying notice for approval by the members.
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain is interested in the resolution as set out at item no. 5 of the notice. Mr. Abhishek Jain and Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, 
Directors of the Company being relatives of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, may be deemed to be concerned or interested in the resolution set out 
at item no. 5.
Save and except the above, none of the other Directors/ Key Managerial Personnel of the company/ their relatives are, in any way, 
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise at item no. 5 of the notice.
ITEM NO.6
The managerial remuneration paid to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain (DIN:00148839), Chairman and Managing Director of the Company for the 
financial year 2022-23 exceeded the limit under section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
The financial year 2022-23 has posed several challenges to the business due to geopolitical disruptions, increase in raw material prices 
and most importantly, semiconductor chip shortage. As a result, the Company had inadequate profits in financial year 2022-23 for the 
purpose of payment of remuneration to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain.
Despite the challenging operational environment, the Company reported a revenue growth of 20.35% on stand-alone basis. While the 
Company continued to make payment of dividends to the shareholders, however no commission was paid to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, 
Chairman and Managing Director of the Company for the financial year 2022-23. Further there was no increase in remuneration of Mr. 
Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman and Managing Director of the Company for the financial year 2022-23. 
The Board of Directors of the company upon recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee at their meeting held on 
19th May 2023, subject to the approval of members of the Company, approved waiver of recovery of excess managerial remuneration of 
Corporate Overview | Notice | Management Reports | Financial Statements
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
36
Based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, the Board of Directors in their meeting held on 19th 
May, 2023, re-appointed Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain as the Chairman & Managing Director of the Company for a period of three years from 1st 
November, 2023 to 31st October, 2026.
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain has provided his consent to act as a Director and a declaration to the effect that he is not disqualified under 164(2) 
of the Act. Also, he is not debarred from holding the office of director by virtue of any order of the Securities and Exchange Board of India 
or any other such authority.
A copy of memorandum containing terms of re-appointment and remuneration of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman & Managing Director as 
required under Section 190 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”), would be available for inspection by the members electronically on 
VC / OAVM platform during the annual general meeting. 
The Board while re-appointing Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain as the Chairman and Managing Director of the Company, who would be attaining 70 
years during his tenure considered his skills, experience, knowledge and contributions to the Company. 
Details pursuant to Schedule V of the Act are as under:
Sr.
Particulars
I.
General Information
a.
Nature of Industry
Auto component
b.
Date of commencement of commercial 
production
The Company commenced its business on 1st November, 1995 (certificate of 
commencement)
c.
In case of new companies, expected 
date of commencement of activities 
as per project approved by financial 
institutions appearing in the prospectus
NA
d.
Financial performance of the Company 
based on given indicators
` (In Lacs)
Particulars
2022-23
2021-22
2020-21
Total Income
49561.91
41106.86
32.383.20
Earning before interest, tax, 
depreciation and amortization 
expense
4885.15
4104.59
3635.65
Less: Interest
1029.83
598.30
369.35
Depreciation and amortization 
expense 
2954.00
2895.09
2632.44
Profit / (loss) before exceptional 
and extraordinary items and tax 
901.32
611.20
633.86
Profit / (loss) for the period
681.02
458.82
483.61
e.
Foreign investments or collaborations, 
if any
The Company has a technical collaboration with Tokai Kogyo Co. Ltd, Japan and 
Nissen Chemitec Corporation, Japan
Information about the Appointee
a.
Background details
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain is a Commerce Graduate from the prestigious Shriram 
College of Commerce, Delhi. He is associated with the Company since inception 
with experience of over 45 years in polymer processing industry and over 30 years 
in the automotive industry. He has served as the President of Honda Cars India 
Suppliers Club in the year 2011-12. He has also served as the Vice President 
of Toyota Kirloskar Suppliers’ Association from 2006-2015. Currently, he is the 
President of Toyota Kirloskar Suppliers’ Association.
b.
Past Remuneration
Details of remuneration paid during FY23 are mentioned in Corporate Governance 
Report section of the Annual Report.
39
Annexure - 1
Details of Director seeking re-appointment as required under Regulation 36 of the Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard- 2 issued 
by ICSI on General Meetings.
Name of the Director
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Director Identification Number (DIN)
00137651
00148839
Nationality 
Indian
Indian
Date of Birth and Age
24th September, 1981 (41 years)
3rd December, 1954 (68 years)
Date of first appointment 
1st December, 2006
18th October, 1995
Qualification
Bachelor of Science in Industrial 
Engineering from Purdue 
University, West Lafayette, USA
Bachelor of Commerce from Shriram College 
of Commerce, Delhi University
Expertise in specific functional area
Having vast experience in 
automotive industry.
Having experience of more than four decades 
in automotive industry.
Terms and condition of appointment/re-
appointment
Refer Item No. 3 of this notice
Refer item no. 6 of this notice
Details of remuneration last drawn (Financial 
year 2022-23) and sought to be paid, if 
applicable
74.37 lakhs
120.57 lakhs
Number of Board meetings attended during the 
financial year 2022-23
5 (Five)
5 (Five)
Relationships with other Directors, Manager 
and other Key Managerial Personnel
Son of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, 
Chairman and Managing Director 
& Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, Non-
Executive Director
Father of Mr. Abhishek Jain, Chief Executive 
Officer and Managing Director & husband 
of Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, Non-Executive 
Director
List of Directorships held in other companies 
(excluding foreign, private and section 8 
Companies) as on 31st March 2023. 
PPAP Technology Limited
PPAP Technology Limited
Name of listed entities from which the Director 
has resigned during last 3 years.
None
None
Memberships/ Chairmanships of Audit and 
Stakeholders Relationship Committees across 
Public companies including PPAP Automotive 
Limited
Member of following committees of 
PPAP Automotive Limited:
- 
 Stakeholders Relationship 
Committee 
- 
Audit Committee
- 
 Corporate Social 
Responsibility Committee
-
No. of shares held in the company
(a) Own
(b) For other persons on a beneficial basis
10,02,404 equity shares
38,67,180 equity shares
Skills and capabilities required for the role 
and the manner in which the proposed person 
meets such requirements
Refer corporate governance report
Refer corporate governance report
Corporate Overview | Notice | Management Reports | Financial Statements
<Please register your e-mail address and make contribution to save our planet>
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
38
` 64.97 Lakhs (Rupees Sixty-four lakh ninety-seven thousand only) paid during the financial year 2022-23 to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, which 
exceeded the limits specified under section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act to the extent as aforesaid, due to inadequacy of profits 
in the said financial year.
Thus, pursuant to Section 197(10) of the Act, the members of the Company, may ratify and confirm waiver of recovery of excess 
managerial remuneration of ` 64.97 Lakhs (Rupees Sixty-four lakh ninety-seven thousand only), paid during the financial year 2022-23 
to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, which exceeded the limits specified under section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act to the extent as aforesaid, 
due to inadequacy of profits in the said financial year.
The Board of Directors of the company recommends the item no. 6 of the notice as a special resolution.
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain is interested in the resolution as set out at item no. 6 of the notice. Mr. Abhishek Jain and Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, 
Directors of the Company being relatives of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, may be deemed to be concerned or interested in the resolution set out 
at item no. 6.
Save and except the above, none of the other Directors/ Key Managerial Personnel of the company/ their relatives are, in any way, 
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise at item no. 6 of the notice.
ITEM NO. 7
The Company is required to have its costs records audited by a Cost Accountant in practice. Accordingly, the Board of Directors of 
the Company on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, have approved the appointment of M/s. Jangira & Associates (Firm 
Registration No. 103597), Cost Accountants, New Delhi as Cost Auditors of the Company for conducting the audit of the cost records of 
the Company, for the financial year 2023-24 at a remuneration of ` 1,75,000 (Rupees one lac seventy five thousand only) plus payment 
of applicable taxes and re-imbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Cost Auditors in connection with the aforesaid audit.
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, members of the Company 
are required to ratify the remuneration proposed to be paid to the Cost Auditors and pass the resolution as an ordinary resolution.
Accordingly, the Board of Directors recommends the ordinary resolution set out at item no. 7 of the accompanying notice for approval by 
the members.
None of the Directors, Key Management Personnel of the Company and their relatives, are in any way concerned or interested financially 
or otherwise at item no. 7 of the notice.
The Board recommends the ordinary resolution as set out in item no. 7 of the notice for approval by the members.
 
By the order of the Board
 
For PPAP Automotive Limited
Place: Noida 
Pankhuri Agarwal
Date: 12th August, 2023 
Company Secretary
ACS-59103
41
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
etc. as per the needs of your Company.
Annual return
The annual return of your Company as on 31st March, 2023, in 
accordance with Section 92(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 read 
with the Companies (Management and Administration) Rules, 2014, 
is available on your Company’s website at https://www.ppapco.in/
assets/pdf/annual_reports/FY2023-Annual_return.pdf (link).
Meetings of the Board of Directors
The Board of Directors met five times during FY2023, the details 
of which are given in the corporate governance report that forms 
part of this annual report. The intervening gap between every two 
meetings during the year under review were in compliance with the 
period prescribed under the Act, and the Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”). 
Directors and key managerial personnel 
In accordance with the provisions of the Act, and in terms of 
Articles of Association of the Company, Mr. Abhishek Jain (DIN: 
00137651), Chief Executitive Officer and Managing Director of the 
Company retires by rotation and being eligible, offer himself for re-
appointment at the 28th AGM.
The Board of Directors upon the recommendation of nomination 
and remuneration Committee has re-appointed Mr. Ajay Kumar 
Jain (DIN: 00148839) as Chairman & Managing Director of the 
Company for a further period of three years w.e.f. 1st November, 
2023 to 31st October, 2026, subject to the approval of shareholders 
at the ensuing AGM.
Mr. Abhishek Jain (DIN: 00137651), Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director of your Company upon recommendation of 
nomination and remuneration committee and approval of Board and 
shareholders in the AGM held on 3rd September, 2021 has been re-
appointed as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director for a 
period of 3 years from 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2025.
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi (DIN: 03605973), was appointed as 
an Additional Director (Independent) by the Board of Directors, 
subject to shareholder approval, w.e.f 4th February, 2023 for first 
term of five consecutive years with effect from 4th February, 2023 
to 3rd February, 2028.
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi appointment as an Independent Director 
for first term of five consecutive years with effect from 4th February, 
2023 to 3rd February, 2028 was approved by the shareholders by 
postal ballot on 31st March, 2023.
The Board of directors upon recommendation of nomination and 
remuneration committee has appointed Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal as 
Company Secretary of the Company w.e.f. 13th May 2022.
The disclosure as required under the provisions of the Act, read with 
Secretarial Standards issued by Institute of Company Secretaries 
of India and Listing Regulations forms part of the Notice convening 
AGM.
Declaration by independent directors
The Company has received declarations from all the independent 
directors of the Company confirming that they meet with criteria of 
independence as prescribed under Section 149(6) of the Act, and 
the Listing Regulations. Further, all the Independent Directors have 
registered their names in the data bank maintained and managed 
by Indian Institute of Corporate Affairs.
During the year, the Independent Directors of your Company had 
no pecuniary relationship or transactions with your Company other 
than sitting fees accrued to them for attending meetings of the 
Board and its committee(s).
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Independent 
Directors are placed on the website of the Company under the 
link: 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Template_for_
appointment_of_Independent_Director.pdf
Directors’ responsibility statement
In terms of and pursuant to Section 134(3)(c) of the Act, as 
amended from time to time, in relation to the financial statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023, to the best of their knowledge 
and belief your Directors confirm the following:
i. 
 that in the preparation of annual accounts for the financial year 
ended 31st March, 2023, the applicable accounting standards 
have been followed along with proper explanations relating to 
material departures, if any; 
ii. 
 that the directors have selected such accounting policies and 
applied them consistently and made judgments and estimates 
that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a “true and fair 
view” of the state of affairs of the Company as at 31st March, 
2023 and of the profit and loss of the Company for the financial 
year ended 31st March, 2023;
iii. 
 that the proper and sufficient care has been taken for the 
maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance 
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing 
and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
iv. 
 that the annual accounts for the financial year ended 31st 
March, 2023 have been prepared on a “going concern basis”;
v. 
 that the internal financial controls are adequate and are 
operating effectively; and
vi. 
 that proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions 
of all applicable laws are adequate and operating effectively.
Compliance with secretarial standards
Your Company has complied with the applicable secretarial 
standards issued by the Institute of Companies Secretaries of India 
(SS-1 and SS-2) respectively relating to meetings of the Board and 
its committees and general meetings.
Evaluation of the Board’s performance 
Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 and the 
Listing Regulations, the Board of Directors has carried out annual 
evaluation of its own performance, Directors, Chairman and its 
committees. The manner in which the evaluation has been carried 
out is given in the corporate governance report that forms part of 
this annual report.
Nomination and remuneration policy 
The remuneration paid to the Directors is in accordance with the 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
40
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Dear Members,
PPAP Automotive Limited
Your directors have pleasure in presenting the Twenty Eighth Annual Report of PPAP Automotive Limited (“Company”) along with the 
audited financial statements and the auditors’ report thereon for the year ended 31st March, 2023. 
Financial highlights and state of Company’s affairs
The financial performance of the Company for the year ended 31st March, 2023, on a standalone and consolidated basis, is summarized 
below:
(` in lacs)
Particulars
For the year ended
Standalone
Consolidated
31st March, 2023
31st March, 2022
31st March, 2023
31st March, 2022
Revenue from Operations (net of excise)
49232.17
40907.21
51111.22
42191.73
Other Income
329.74
199.65
141.07
99.78
Profit / loss before Depreciation, Finance Costs, 
Exceptional items and Tax Expense
4885.15
4104.59
4796.60
3610.31
Less: Depreciation / Amortization / Impairment
2954.00
2895.09
3112.19
2946.85
Profit / loss before Finance Costs, Exceptional 
items and Tax Expense
1931.15
1209.57
1684.41
663.46
Less: Finance Costs
1029.83
598.30
1173.12
650.53
Profit / loss before Tax Expense
901.32
611.20
(511.29)
12.93
Less: Tax Expense (Current & Deferred)
220.30
152.38
83.14
91.77
Profit / loss for the year 
681.02
458.82
(594.43)
(78.84)
Other Comprehensive Income / loss 
(14.99)
(11.58)
(17.90)
(11.01)
Total
666.03
447.24
(612.33)
(89.85)
Dividend
The Board of Directors of the Company are pleased to recommend 
a final dividend of Re. 0.5 per equity share (5%) of face value of 
` 10 each subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing 
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
During FY2023 the Company also declared and paid interim 
dividend of Re. 1 per equity share (10%) of face value of ` 10 each.
In terms of the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961, as 
amended by the Finance Act, 2020, dividend paid or distributed 
by a company on or after 1st April, 2020 is taxable in the hands of 
the shareholders. The tax shall be deducted at the rates prescribed 
under the Income Tax Act, 1961, as amended, which varies based 
upon the category and residential status of the shareholder. 
Shareholders are requested to update their residential status, KYC 
including PAN with their depository participants, in case of shares 
held in demat mode and with the Registrar and Share Transfer 
Agent of the Company, in case the shares are held in physical 
mode for determining the applicable rate of tax deducted at source.
Transfer to Reserves
During the year under review, no amount has been transferred to 
general reserve of the Company. 
Change in the Nature of Business
During the year under review, there was no change in the nature of 
business of the Company.
Share capital
The authorized share capital of the Company is ` 20,00,00,000 
(Rupees Twenty Crores) comprising of 2,00,00,000 (Two Crores) 
equity shares of ` 10 each. The issued, subscribed and paid-up 
share capital of the Company is ` 14,00,00,000 (Rupees Fourteen 
Crores) comprising of 1,40,00,000 (One Crore Forty Lakh) equity 
shares of ` 10 each. During the year under review, there is no 
change in share capital of the Company.
Deposits
Your Company has not accepted any deposit within the meaning 
of provisions of Chapter V of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) 
read with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 for 
the year ended 31st March, 2023.
Technical collaboration 
The Company has technical collaborations with Tokai Kogyo Co. 
Limited, Japan; Nissen Chemitec Corporation, Japan; and Tokai 
Kogyo Seiki Co. Limited, Japan. 
The technology partners of your Company have extended 
their continuous support in terms of new product development, 
innovations, design, latest technology, quality, productivity, safety, 
43
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Further Company has received the in-principle approval from 
National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited for 
listing of upto a maximum of 7,00,000 equity shares of ` 10/- each 
of the Company to be allotted pursuant to the Scheme.
The Company has obtained a Certificate from the Secretarial 
Auditors stating that Scheme has been implemented in accordance 
with the SEBI SBEB Regulations. The said Certificate will be made 
available for inspection through electronic mode by writing to the 
Company at investors@ppapco.com from the date of circulation of 
the AGM Notice till the date of the AGM.
During the year under review Company has granted options to the 
eligible employees of the Company. No employee has been issued 
stock options, during the year, equal to or exceeding 1% of the 
issued capital of the Company at the time of grant.
The applicable disclosures as stipulated under Regulation 14 of 
SEBI SBEB Regulations with regard to Employees Stock Option 
Plan of the Company are available on the website of the Company 
and web link for the same is https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/
annual_reports/ESOP_disclosure-final_220823.pdf.
Particulars of employees
The information required under Section 197 of the Act, read with 
Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration 
of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 (including any statutory 
modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in 
force) in respect of Directors / employees of the Company, annexed 
as ‘Annexure-A’ to this report.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associate companies
During FY2023 no company has become or ceased to be 
subsidiary, joint venture or associate of the company.
The Company has two subsidiary companies and a joint venture 
company. Elpis Components Distributors Private Limited and PPAP 
Technology Limited are wholly owned subsidiary companies of 
the Company. PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited is a joint 
venture company of the Company.
A statement containing the salient features of the financial 
statements of subsidiary / associates / joint venture company, 
as per Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013, is part of the 
consolidated financial statements. The audited financial statements 
of the wholly owned subsidiary companies have been placed on 
the website of the Company. 
Corporate governance report
Your Company is committed to maintain high standards of corporate 
governance and adhere to the corporate governance requirements 
set out under the Listing Regulations. The Company constantly 
strive to evolve and follow up on the corporate governance 
guidelines and its best practices.
The compliance report on corporate governance and a certificate 
from M/s NKJ & Associates, Company Secretaries, regarding 
the compliance of the conditions of corporate governance, as 
stipulated under Chapter IV of the Listing Regulations, is annexed 
to this annual report.
Management discussion and analysis report
As required under Regulation 34(2) of the Listing Regulations, a 
detailed management discussion and analysis report is annexed 
to this annual report.
Business responsibility and sustainability report
The Company has provided Business responsibility and 
sustainability report (BRSR) based on the National Guidelines on 
Responsible Business Conduct describing initiatives undertaken 
from an environmental, social and governance perspective.
Material changes and commitments affecting financial 
position between end of the financial year and date of report. 
There has been no material change and commitment, affecting the 
financial performance of the Company which occurred between the 
end of the financial year of the Company to which the financial 
statements relate and the date of this report. 
Particulars of loans, guarantees and investments. 
During the year under review, your Company has not given any 
loan or guarantee which is covered under the provisions of Section 
186 of the Companies Act, 2013. However, details of investments 
made during the year, are given under Note no. 7 of the standalone 
financial statements of the Company.
Related party transactions
During FY2023, all contracts / transactions entered by your 
Company with related parties under Section 188(1) of the 
Companies Act, 2013 were in the ordinary course of business 
and on an arm’s length basis. During FY2023, your Company has 
not entered into any contracts / arrangements / transactions with 
related parties which could be considered ‘material’ in accordance 
with its policy on materiality of related party transactions. Thus, 
there are no transactions required to be reported in form AOC-2.
The details of the related party transactions as per Ind AS-24 are 
set out in Note no. 40 to the standalone financial statements of the 
Company.
Auditors and Auditor’s report
• 
Statutory auditors 
 In terms of Section 139 of the Act read with the Companies (Audit 
and Auditors) Rules, 2014 (as amended), M/s. O P Bagla & Co. LLP 
(Registration No. 000018N / N500091), Chartered Accountants 
was appointed as the Statutory Auditors of your Company for a 
consecutive period of 5 (five) years from conclusion of the 23rd 
AGM held in the year 2018 until conclusion of the ensuing AGM 
of your Company and accordingly will complete their present term 
on conclusion of the ensuing AGM. Your Board places on record its 
appreciation for the services of M/s. O P Bagla & Co. LLP during 
their tenure as the Statutory Auditors of your Company.
 The Board of Directors upon the recommendation of Audit 
Committee appointed M/s. TR Chadha & Co LLP, Chartered 
Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No. 006711N/ N500028), 
as Statutory Auditors for a period of 5 (five) consecutive years 
commencing from the conclusion of the 28th AGM till the conclusion 
of the 33rd AGM, subject to the approval of members in the ensuing 
AGM. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
42
nomination and remuneration policy formulated in accordance with 
Section 178 of the Act, and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations 
(including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof 
for the time being in force). 
The salient aspects covered in the nomination and remuneration 
policy have been given hereunder:
In accordance with the nomination and remuneration policy, 
the nomination and remuneration committee has, inter alia, the 
following responsibilities:
1. 
 Ensure appropriate induction and training program: The 
committee shall ensure that there is an appropriate induction 
and training program in place for new Directors, Key 
Managerial Personnel (KMPs) and Senior Management 
Personnel (SMPs) and review its effectiveness. 
2. 
 Formulating the criteria for appointment as a Director: The 
committee shall formulate criteria and review it on an ongoing 
basis, for determining qualifications, skills, experience, 
expertise, qualities, attributes, etc. required to be a Director of 
the Company.
3. 
 Identify persons who are qualified to be Directors / 
Independent Directors / KMPs / SMPs: The committee shall 
identify persons who are qualified to become Directors / 
Independent Directors / KMPs / SMPs and who satisfy the 
criteria laid down under the provisions of the Act, Rules made 
thereunder, the Listing Regulations or any other enactment, 
for the time being in force.
4. 
 Nominate candidates for Directorships subject to the approval 
of the Board: The committee shall recommend to the Board 
the appointment of potential candidates as Non-Executive 
Director or Independent Director or Executive Director, as the 
case may be.
5. 
 Evaluate the performance of the Board: The committee shall 
determine a process for evaluating the performance of the 
Board, Director, Chairman and Committees of the Board, on 
an annual basis.
6. 
 Remuneration of Managing Director / Directors: The committee 
shall ensure that the tenure of Executive Directors and their 
compensation packages are in accordance with applicable 
laws and in line with the Company’s objectives, shareholders’ 
interests and benchmarked with the industry.
7. 
 Review performance and compensation of Independent 
Directors: The committee shall review the performance of 
Independent Directors of the Company. The committee 
shall ensure that the Independent Directors may receive 
remuneration by way of sitting fees for attending the meetings 
of Board or committee(s), thereof provided that the amount of 
such fees shall be subject to ceiling / limits as provided under 
the Act, and Rules made thereunder or any other enactment, 
for the time being, in force. 
8. 
 Review performance and compensation of KMPs / SMPs: 
The committee shall ensure that the remuneration to be 
paid to KMPs / SMPs shall be based on their experience, 
qualifications and expertise and governed by the limits, if 
any, prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013 and Rules 
made thereunder or any other enactment, for the time being, 
in force.
9. 
 Directors’ and Officers’ Insurance: The committee shall ensure 
that the insurance taken by the Company on behalf of its 
Directors, KMPs / SMPs either for indemnifying them against 
any liability or any other matter as may be deemed fit, the 
premium paid on such insurance, shall not be treated as part 
of the remuneration payable, to any such personnel.
10.  Succession plans: The committee shall address and review 
sufficiently in advance the succession plans in order to ensure 
smooth transition and maintain an ideal balance of skills, 
experience and expertise on the Board.
11.  Evaluation of Independent Director: For every appointment of 
an independent director, the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee shall evaluate for the balancing the holistic 
set of skills, knowledge, wisdom, and experience on the 
Board. Based on such evaluation, prepare the role and 
responsibilities, qualifications, and capabilities required of an 
incoming independent director. The person recommended to 
the Board for appointment as an independent director shall 
have the capabilities identified in such description. To identify 
suitable candidates, the Committee may:
 
a) 
use the services of an external agencies, 
 
b) 
 consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds 
having due regard to diversity and, 
 
c) 
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
Employee stock Option Scheme
Your Company acknowledges that its growth may be attributed 
to the direction and contributions of the employees and would 
therefore like to provide them the option to participate and share 
in the wealth created similar to other stakeholders i.e. clients, 
investors, governments, and society.
As a gesture aligned to this objective, an Employee Stock Option 
Scheme (“ESOP 2022” / “Scheme”) is implemented to: 
a. 
 Promote success of the Company by rewarding and motivating 
the employees; 
b. 
Attract and retain talents; 
c. 
Link interests of employees with shareholders; 
d. 
Foster ownership; and 
e. 
Reward for loyalty
During the year the shareholders at their 27th AGM held on 16th 
September, 2022 approved the ESOP 2022. Pursuant to the 
approved Scheme Company is eligible to grant up to 7,00,000 
options to the eligible employee. The Scheme approved by the 
members is in accordance with Section 62 and other applicable 
provisions of the Act, read with the rules made thereunder and 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based Employee 
Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulation, 2021 (“SEBI SBEB 
Regulations”).
45
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Policy on sexual harassment of women at workplace
The Company values the dignity of individuals and strives to provide 
a safe and respectable work environment to all its employees. The 
Company is committed to providing an environment, which is free 
of discrimination, intimidation, and abuse.
Your Company has in place a policy on prevention of sexual 
harassment at workplace. This policy is in line with the requirements 
of the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace (Prevention, 
Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013. The Company has constituted 
Internal Complaints Committees at various locations as per 
requirement of the Sexual Harassment of Women at the Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013 for redressal 
of complaints relating to sexual harassment against woman at 
workplace. Your Company has been conducting awareness campaign 
across all its manufacturing units to encourage its employees to be 
more responsible and alert while discharging their duties.
During the year under review, the Company has not received any 
complaint on sexual harassment. 
Details of significant and material orders passed by the 
regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going concern 
status and Company’s operations in future
No significant and material orders have been passed during the 
year under review by the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting 
the going concern status and Company’s operations in future. 
Details on internal financial controls related to financial 
statements
Your Company has a robust and well embedded system of internal 
controls. This ensures that all assets are safeguarded and protected 
against loss from unauthorized use or disposition and all financial 
transactions are authorized, recorded and reported correctly.
The internal auditors evaluate the efficacy and adequacy of the 
internal control system, its compliance with operating systems 
and policies of the Company at all the locations of the Company. 
Based on the report of internal audit function, the process owners 
undertake corrective action in their respective areas and thereby 
strengthen the controls. Significant audit observations and 
corrective actions, thereon, are reported to the audit committee.
The Company has an effective and reliable internal financial 
control system commensurate with the nature of its business, size 
and complexity of its operations.
This also identifies opportunities for improvement and ensures 
good practices imbibed in the processes that develop and 
strengthen the internal financial control systems and enhance the 
reliability of Company’s financial statements.
The audit committee reviews the internal audit plan, adequacy and 
effectiveness of the internal control system.
Whistle blower policy
Your Company is committed to highest standards of ethical, moral 
and legal business conduct. Accordingly, the Board of Directors 
have formulated whistle blower policy which is in compliance with 
the provisions of Section 177(9) of the Act, and Regulation 22 of 
the Listing Regulations.
The whistle blower policy provides a vigil mechanism for the 
Director / employee to report, without fear of victimization, any 
unethical behavior, suspected or actual fraud, violation of the 
code of conduct of the Company, etc. which are detrimental to the 
organization’s interest and reputation. The mechanism protects 
whistle blower from any kind of discrimination, harassment, 
victimization or any other unfair employment practice.
The Directors and employees in appropriate or exceptional cases 
have direct access to the Chairman of the audit committee. The 
said policy is placed on the website of the Company at www.
ppapco.in.
Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign 
exchange earnings and outgo
The information as required under Section 134(3)(m) of the Act, read 
with Rule 8(3) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, relating to 
conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign exchange 
earnings and outgo, annexed as ‘Annexure- D’ to this report.
Other Disclosures
i. 
 Details of application made or any proceeding pending under 
the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016- Not applicable
ii. 
 Details of difference between amount of the valuation done at 
the time of one time settlement and the valuation done while 
taking loan from the Banks or Financial Institutions along with 
the reasons thereof- Not applicable
iii. 
 Agreement referred under clause 5A of paragraph A of Part 
A of Schedule III of Listing Regulations entered during FY23 
and as on date- Nil
Acknowledgements
The Directors place on record their appreciation for the hard work 
and valuable contribution made by every member of PPAP family.
Your Directors are thankful to your technology partners, suppliers, 
as well as vendors, our shareholders, business associates, 
banks, financial institutions for their continued support and for the 
confidence reposed in the Company.
For and on behalf of the Board
Place: Noida 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 12th August, 2023 
Chairman & 
CEO & 
 
Managing Director 
Managing Director
 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00137651
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
44
 M/s TR Chadha & Co LLP Chartered accountancy firm, with over 76 
years of history, has been providing industry expertise to numerous 
multinationals as well as reputed Indian companies. The firm has 
since been committed to offer wide array of services spanning 
across Assurance services, Internal Audit & Risk Advisory, Direct, 
Indirect, and international Taxation & Consultancy Services.
 The Company has received from M/s TR Chadha & Co LLP, 
Chartered Accountants the consent for appointment and 
declaration stating that they are not disqualified from acting as 
statutory auditors if they are appointed by the members. They have 
further confirmed that their appointment, if made, would be within 
the limits laid down by the Companies Act, 2013. Further, they 
have confirmed that they hold a valid certificate issued by the Peer 
Review Board of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
Statutory auditors’ report
The Auditors’ report does not contain any qualification, 
reservation(s) or adverse remark(s). The notes on financial 
statements referred to in the auditors’ report are self-explanatory 
and do not call for further comments. 
• 
Secretarial auditors
 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 204 of the Act, and rules 
framed thereunder, M/s NKJ & Associates, Practicing Company 
Secretaries were appointed as secretarial auditors of the Company 
for the financial year ended 31st March, 2023. 
 The secretarial audit report for the financial year ended 31st March, 
2023 in form MR-3 is attached as ‘Annexure- B’ to this report.
Secretarial auditors’ report
The report of secretarial auditors, part of this annual report does 
not contain any qualification(s), reservation(s) or adverse remark(s) 
or disclaimer in the said report. 
The Company had received notice from National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited dated 14th December 2022 for non-compliance of 
Regulation 42(3) of the Listing Regulations and imposition a fine 
of ` 10,000/-. The Company has applied for waiver of imposition 
of fine.
• 
Cost auditors
 The Board of Directors, on recommendation of the audit 
committee, appointed M/s Rakesh Singh & Co., Cost Accountants, 
(Registration No. 000247) as cost auditors to audit the cost 
accounts of the Company for the financial year ended 31st March, 
2023 pursuant to the provisions of Section 148 of the Act.
 In order to bring in new perspectives, methodologies, and ideas to 
achieve greater levels of transparency and efficiency, the Board of 
Directors on recommendation of the Audit Committee, appointed 
Jangira & Associates Firm Registration no. 103597), Cost 
Accountants, as cost auditors of the Company for the financial year 
ended 31st March, 2023 at the remuneration of ` 175,000 (Rupees 
One lac seventy-five thousand only), exclusive of applicable taxes. 
The Company has received from Jangira & Associates the consent 
for appointment as Cost Auditors of the Company for FY2024.
 Jangira & Associates is a Cost and Management Accountancy 
Sole Proprietary Firm established by Mr. Jitender Jangira, on 12th 
September 2014. The firm is into Cost Auditing, Cost evaluation, 
Cost reduction management, Taxation Services, Verification of 
Fixed Assets & Stocks.
 The remuneration payable to the cost auditors is required to be 
ratified by the shareholders at the AGM. Accordingly, resolution 
ratifying the remuneration payable to Jangira & Associates, Cost 
Accountants, as cost auditors shall be placed for the approval of 
the shareholders at the 28th AGM.
 The Company has maintained the necessary accounts and records 
as specified by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of 
Section 148 of the Act.
 The Company had filed the cost audit report for financial year 2021-
22 on 8th September, 2022, in compliance with the Companies 
(Cost Records and Audit) Amendment Rules, 2014. 
Reporting of frauds by auditors
During the year under review, the auditors of the Company have 
not reported to the audit committee, under Section 143(12) of the 
Act, any instances of fraud committed against the Company by its 
officers and employees.
Corporate social responsibility
Your Company has been taking initiatives under Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) for the society at large. The Company has a 
well-defined policy on CSR as per the requirement of Section 135 
of the Act. 
During the year, your Company thrives to constantly contribute 
towards the betterment of the local community in which it operates 
and the upliftment of the marginalised section of our society, 
through “Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation”, a registered trust for 
focused implementation of CSR activities of the Company majorly 
in the field of environment, education and health.
The CSR Policy is also available on the website of the Company 
and can be accessed by web link https://www.ppapco.in/assets/
pdf/policies/Corporate_Social_Responsibility_Policy.pdf 
CSR 
report, pursuant to Section 134(3)(o) of the Act, and Rule 9 of 
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 2014, 
annexed as ‘Annexure- C’ to this report.
Risk management 
The Company has established risk management framework that 
enables regular and active monitoring of business activities for 
identification, assessment and mitigation of potential internal or 
external risks. The respective functional / business head(s) are 
entrusted with the responsibility of identifying, mitigating and 
monitoring of risk in their respective areas. Risk management 
forms an integral part of the management and is an ongoing 
process integrated with the operations.
The Company has a risk management policy for identification of 
elements of risk, if any, which in the opinion of the Board may 
threaten the existence of the company. The Company’s risk 
management processes focus on ensuring that risks are identified 
promptly, and mitigation action plan is formulated and executed 
timely. 
47
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Form No. MR-3
[Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and 
rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of 
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014]
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED ON 31ST MARCH 2023
To
The Members,
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
Phase-III, Delhi-110020
We have conducted the Secretarial Audit of the compliance 
of applicable statutory provisions and the adherence to good 
corporate practices by PPAP Automotive Limited (hereinafter 
called the Company). Secretarial Audit was conducted in a 
manner that provided us a reasonable basis for evaluating the 
corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our 
opinion thereon.
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute 
books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the 
Company and also the information provided by the Company, its 
officers, agents and authorized representatives during the conduct 
of secretarial audit. We hereby submit the updated report that in 
our opinion, the Company has, during the audit period covering 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 complied, with the 
statutory provisions listed hereunder and also that the Company 
has proper Board-processes and compliance-mechanism in place 
to the extent, in the manner and subject to the reporting made 
hereinafter:
We have examined the books, papers, minute books, forms and 
returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for 
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2023 according to the 
provisions of:
i. 
 The Companies Act, 2013 (‘Act’) and the rules made 
thereunder;
ii. 
 The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) 
and the rules made thereunder;
iii. 
 The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-
laws framed thereunder;
iv. 
 Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules 
and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign 
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External 
Commercial Borrowings;
v. 
 The following Regulations and Guidelines prescribed under 
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI 
Act’):
 
a) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial 
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
Annexure-B to the Directors’ Report
 
b) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition 
of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
 
c) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of 
Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2018 (including erstwhile regulation);
 
d) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share 
Based 
Employee 
Benefits 
and 
Sweat 
Equity) 
Regulations, 2021; 
 
e) 
 a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue 
and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities) Regulations, 
2021; Not Applicable
 
f) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars 
to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 
1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with 
client to the extent of securities issued;
 
g) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting 
of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021; Not Applicable 
 
h) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Buyback 
of Securities) Regulations, 2018; Not Applicable; and 
 
i) 
 The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 
2015 from the date applicable.
vi. 
Following are the other acts applicable on the Company;
 
a) 
The Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981;
 
b) 
The Water (Prevention Control of Pollution) Act, 1974;
 
c) 
The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986; and 
 
d) 
The Petroleum Act, 1934.
We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses 
of the following:
i. 
 Secretarial Standards issued by The Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India. 
ii. 
 The Listing Agreements entered into by the Company with the 
BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited to 
the date applicable.
During the period under review, the Company has complied 
with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, 
Standards, etc..The Company had received notice from National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited dated 14th December 2022 for 
non-compliance of Regulation 42(3) of Securities and Exchange 
Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) 
Regulations, 2015 and imposed a fine of ` 10,000/-. The Company 
has applied for waiver of imposition of fine.
We further report that
The Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with 
proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors 
and Independent Directors. The changes in the composition of the 
Board of Directors that took place during the period under review 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
46
Pursuant to Section 197 of the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and 
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014
i. 
The ratio of remuneration of each Director# to the median remuneration of all the employees of your Company for the 
financial year 2022-23
Name of Directors
Designation
Ratio to median remuneration
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
39.03
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director 
39.03
ii. 
The percentage increase in remuneration each Director#, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Company 
Secretary, if any, in the financial year 2022-23
Name of Employee
Designation
% increase in remuneration
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
-
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
-
Mr. Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
8%
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal *
Company Secretary
15%
#The Non-Executive and Independent Directors did not receive remuneration, except sitting fees for attending Board / Committee meetings, therefore, 
the ratio of remuneration and percentage increase are not considered for the above purpose.
* Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal has been appointed w.e.f. 13th May, 2022.
iii. The percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees in the financial year 2022-23 – 7.36% 
iv. 
Number of permanent employees on the rolls of the Company as on 31st March, 2023 – 1,213 employees
v. 
Average percentiles increase already made in the salaries of employees other than managerial personnel in the financial 
year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out 
if there are any exceptional circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration – Nil
vi. It is hereby affirmed that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
 
 The statement containing names of top ten employees in terms of remuneration drawn and the particulars of employees as required 
under Section 197(2) of the Act read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) 
Rules, 2014, is provided in a separate annexure forming part of this report. Further, the report and the accounts are being sent to 
the members excluding the aforesaid annexure. In terms of Section 136 of the Act, the said annexure is open for inspection at the 
registered office of the Company. Any shareholder interested in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the Company Secretary 
and the same will be furnished on request.
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Noida 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 12th August, 2023 
Chairman & Managing Director 
CEO & Managing Director 
 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00137651
Annexure-A to the Directors’ Report 
49
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Annexure A
To
The Members,
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
54, Okhla Industrial Estate,
Phase-III, Delhi-110020
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter. 
1. 
 Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an 
opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
2. 
 We have followed the audit practices and processes as were appropriate to obtain reasonable assurance about the correctness of 
the contents of the secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial 
records. We believe that the processes and practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
3. 
 We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company. 
4. 
 Wherever required, we have obtained the management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and 
happening of events etc. 
5. 
 The compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards are the responsibility of 
management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis. 
6. 
 The secretarial audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with 
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
For NKJ & Associates
Company Secretaries
Neelesh Kumar Jain
(Proprietor)
FCS No.: 5593
Place: New Delhi 
C P No.: 5233
Date: 10th August 2023 
PR No. : 688/2020
UDIN: F005593E000779982
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
48
were carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Act.
Adequate notice is given to all directors to schedule the Board 
Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda were sent at 
least seven days in advance, and a system exists for seeking 
and obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda 
items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the 
meeting.
All decisions at Board Meetings and Committee Meetings were 
carried out unanimously as recorded in the minutes of the 
meetings of the Board of Directors or Committees of the Board, 
as the case may be.
We further report that 
There are adequate systems and processes in the Company 
commensurate with the size and operations of the Company 
to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, 
regulations and guidelines.
For NKJ & Associates
Company Secretaries
Neelesh Kumar Jain
(Proprietor)
Place: New Delhi 
FCS No.: 5593
Date: 10th August 2023 
C P No.: 5233
PR No. : 688/2020
UDIN: F005593E000779982
This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is 
annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this report.
51
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
7. 
Details of Unspent Corporate Social Responsibility amount for the preceding three Financial Years:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Sl.
No.
Preceding
Financial
Year(s)
Amount 
transferred to 
Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub section (6) 
of section 135 
(in `)
Balance Amount 
in Unspent CSR 
Account under 
sub section (6) 
of section 135 
(in `)
Amount 
Spent in the 
Financial Year 
(in `)
Amount transferred to a 
Fund as specified under 
Schedule VII as per second 
proviso to sub- section (5) 
of section 135, if any
Amount 
remaining to 
be spent in 
succeeding 
Financial 
Years (in `)
Deficiency, if
any
Amount 
(in `)
Date of 
Transfer
l
FY-1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
FY-2
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
3
FY-3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
8. 
 Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the 
Financial Year: No
 
If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired: Not Applicable
 
 Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the Financial 
Year:
Sl.
No.
Short particulars of the 
property or asset(s)
[including complete 
address and location of 
the property]
Pincode of the 
property or 
asset(s)
Date of creation
Amount of 
CSR amount 
spent
Details of entity/ Authority/ beneficiary of the 
registered owner
(l)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
CSR Registration 
No., if Applicable 
address Number, if
Name
Registered 
address
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
 
 (All the fields should be captured as appearing in the revenue record, flat no, house no, Municipal Office/Municipal Corporation/ Gram 
panchayat are to be specified and also the area of the immovable property as well as boundaries)
9. 
 Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per sub- section (5) of section 
135: Not applicable 
On behalf of Board of Directors
PPAP Automotive Limited
 
 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi
Place: Noida 
Chairman & Managing Director 
Chairman of CSR Committee
Date: 19th May, 2023 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00144487
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
50
Corporate Social Responsibility Activities 
[Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”)]
1. 
Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company:
 
 We seek to deliver long-term sustainable growth while reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our positive social impact. The 
CSR initiatives of your Company aim towards our contribution to the society through a range of social and environmental activities. Your 
Company is devoted on the development of communities around the vicinity of our manufacturing plants in the field of education, health, 
hygiene and environment. Our focus is on the upliftment of the economically weaker sections of our society. Your Company conducts its 
CSR programs through its foundation viz. Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation (“Foundation”). The Foundation was envisioned for focused and 
proper implementation of CSR activities undertaken by the Company. Such activities are guided and monitored by the CSR committee of the 
Company from time to time. Our sustainability focus also extends to the communities around which we work and the society at large. Our 
CSR activities during the year were consistent with our focus areas of Environment, Education and Health.
2. 
Composition of CSR Committee:
Sl.
No.
Name of Director
Designation / Nature of 
Directorship 
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee held 
during the year
Number of meetings of 
CSR Committee attended 
during the year
1
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi
Chairman, Independent Director
 2
2 
2
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Member, Non-Executive Director 
 2
2 
3
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Member, Executive Director
 2
2 
3. 
 Provide the web-link(s) where Composition of CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR Projects approved by the board are disclosed 
on the website of the company: 
 
(a) Composition of CSR committee: https://www.ppapco.in/financials#boardmembers 
 
(b) CSR Policy: https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Corporate_Social_Responsibility_Policy.pdf 
 
(c) 
CSR projects: https://ppapco.in/assets/pdf/CSR_Project_v1.pdf
4. 
 Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule 
(3) of rule 8, if applicable: Not applicable
5. 
 (a) Average net profit of pthe company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ` 1184.13 Lacs
 
(b) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ` 23.68 Lacs
 
(c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or program or activities of the previous financial years: Nil
 
(d) Amount required to be set-off for the financial year, if any: ` 7.23 Lacs
 
(e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [(b)+(c)-(d)]: ` 16.45 Lacs
6. 
(a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ` 60.73 Lacs 
 
(b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: ` 0.21 Lacs
 
(c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NA
 
(d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year [(a)+(b)+(c)]: ` 60.94 Lacs
 
(e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the Financial Year: 
(` in lacs)
Total Amount 
Spent for the 
Financial Year
Amount unspent 
Total Amount transferred to Unspent CSR 
Account as per sub- section (6) of section 
135
Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as 
per second proviso to sub-section (5) of section 135
Amount
Date of transfer
Name of the Fund
Amount
Date of transfer
` 60.94
-
-
-
-
-
 
(f) Excess amount for set-off, if any: 
Sl.
No.
Particular
Amount
(in `) (in Lacs)
(1)
(2)
(3)
(i)
Two percent of average net profit of the company as per sub-section (5) of section 135
23.68
(ii)
Total amount spent for the Financial Year
60.94
(iii)
Excess amount spent for the Financial Year [(ii)-(i)]
44.49
(iv)
Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous 
Financial Years, if any
-
(v)
Amount available for set off in succeeding Financial Years [(iii)-(iv)]
44.49
Annexure-C to the Directors’ Report
53
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
B. 
Technology absorption 
 
 The Company is working with following technology partners for its technology requirements:
S. No.
Name
Country
Year
Purpose
Has the technology 
fully absorbed 
If not, when to 
be absorbed
1
Tokai Kogyo Co. Limited
Japan
1989
Automotive sealing system
Yes
-
2
Nissen Chemitec Corporation
Japan
2007
Interior and exterior injection 
products
Yes
-
3
Tokai Kogyo Seiki Co. Limited
Japan
2015
Tools and dies
Yes
-
 
 Over the years, the Company has fully absorbed the manufacturing and tooling knowhow from its technology partners. The Company 
is now capable of designing the products that are made by it along with the designing and manufacturing of the tools and machines 
required to manufacture those products. The Company has a well-established inhouse research and development center which 
supports material evaluation as well as product evaluation. Today, the Company is well placed to offer a one-stop shop solution to its 
customers. 
 
 Apart from technology development, the Company focuses on improving its digital footprint by extensive use of software’s as well as 
new industry concepts. 
 
 The Research and Development (R&D) team of the Company continuously carries out the activities to build the Company 
technological self-reliance by promoting in house research, innovation, design and new product development. The following are 
some of the activities carried out by R&D team in the financial year 2022-23: 
 
1. 
Adoption of extrusion process through aluminium insert which is lighter than steel and enhance the vehicle efficiency.
 
2. 
 Developed a new method for sealing code by replacing wire insert extrusion by glass cord insert extrusion. This new method 
has enhanced the process and product capability and also resulted in 20 percent cost saving per meter with respect to brass 
wire.
 
Expenditure on R&D
 
 
(` in lacs)
Particulars
For the year ended
31st March, 2023
31st March, 2022
Capital expenditure
93.22
0.00
Revenue expenditure
66.96
408.34
Total
160.18
408.34
Total R&D expenditure as a % turnover
0.33
1.00
 
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo
 
(` in lacs)
Particulars
For the year ended
31st March, 2023
31st March, 2022
Foreign exchange earning
0.00
0.00
Foreign exchange outgo
47.31
3637.20
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: New Delhi 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 12th August, 2023 
Chairman & Managing Director 
CEO & Managing Director 
 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00137651
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
52
Conservation of Energy, Technology Absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo
Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014
A. 
Energy conservation
 
 Your Company is committed to sustainable business practices by contributing to environment protection and considers energy 
conservation as one of the strong pillars of preserving natural resources. This also helps the Company in reducing carbon footprint 
across all its operations and improve the bottom-line under its ‘Mission Sustainability’. Your Company works on the greenhouse 
gases reduction and always focuses on 3R concept (Reduce, Reuse and Re-cycle).
 
The Company is also ISO 50001 standard certified, which defines the energy management system. 
i. 
Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy
 
1. 
 Shifting the mould storage area closer to the mould maintenance section with the aim of saving energy consumed by the crane 
during mould movement.
 
2. 
 The conventional ceiling fans, each consuming 70 watts, have been replaced with energy-efficient BLDC fans in the canteen and 
other areas.
 
3. 
The boundary CFL lights have been replaced with LED lights for energy saving.
 
4. 
 The conventional air conditioner in the main office has been replaced with an energy-efficient Variable Refrigerant Volume (VRV) AC 
system.
 
5. 
The fixed-speed hydraulic pump in the L&T 350 T Injection Moulding Machine has been replaced with a variable pump.
 
6. 
 The cooling fans have been interlocked with a thermostat and speed regulator to efficiently reduce energy consumption in the 
capacitor bank.
 
7. 
The energy consumption of exhaust fans in the LT panel room has been reduced by implementing speed control for the fans.
 
8. 
Instead of individual chillers, a 60 TR central water chiller has been installed.
 
9. 
New water chillers have been provided with Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) based compressors and exhaust fans.
 
10. An energy-efficient IE5 rated inbuilt VFD 7.5 kW pump has been installed at Cooling Tower for Shed-2.
 
11. The installation of a Variable Frequency Drive (VFD) based air washer has been completed for Shed-2.
 
12. Timers have been provided in the Quality Lab, Training Room, and Office AC units for scheduled operational control.
 
13. Timers have been installed for idle stop in twelve mechanical power presses.
 
14. The air pressure setting in the air compressor has been reduced from 6.8 kg/cm2 to 6.0 kg/cm2.
 
15. The mini puller, main puller, cooling trough pump, and plasma are now running with an interlock sequence in the extrusion line.
 
16. The blower motors of Flocking Machine 1 & 2 are designed to switch off automatically in idle conditions.
 
17.  The main motor of the Stretch Bending Machine is controlled with a VFD (Variable Frequency Drive) to reduce power consumption 
when the machine is idle.
 
18. The motors of Flocking Oven 1 & 2 are programmed to switch off automatically during idle conditions.
 
19.  The oil filtration system has been interlocked with the machine operation in the Injection Moulding Machines of 1300-ton (I and II) 
and 650-ton capacities.
 
20. Provision has been made to start both root blowers from the shop floor, and any unwanted running will be automatically stopped.
 
21. Motion sensors have been installed in the UPS room, LT panel room, toilet, and other common areas.
 
22.  The air pressure setting in the air compressor has been reduced from 7.5 kg/cm2 to 6.0 kg/cm2, and a pressure booster has been 
provided to the cutting robot.
ii. 
 Utilizing alternate sources of energy
 
 The Company has done the feasibility study of mapping solar energy and estimated that 837 KW solar energy can be generated by 
using roof top of all the plants of the Company which is equivalent to 6% of the total estimated power requirement.
iii. Capital investment on energy conservation equipment
 
 The Company continuously endeavors to discover new technologies and tools to save the energy and reduce consumption. The 
Company has spent ` 243.37 lacs as capital investment on energy conservation equipment during the financial year 2022-23.
Annexure-D to the Directors’ Report
55
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Board Committees
The Board Committees play a crucial role in the governance structure of the Company and have been constituted to deal with specific 
activities which concern the Company and need a closer and systematic review. The Board Committees are set up with the approval of 
the Board. There are four committees set up by Board: 
1. 
Audit Committee, 
2. 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee, 
3. 
Nomination & Remuneration Committee and 
4. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
Leadership Team
The leadership team of the Company is responsible for the execution of the directions set by the Board. They are empowered to take 
decisions in their respective domains to discover out of the box solutions to achieve the breakthrough results. 
Key elements of PPAP corporate governance
• 
 Number of Board meetings exceed the statutory requirement, including meeting dedicated to discussing strategy, operating plans 
and risk.
• 
 The Company’s Board comprises directors from diverse backgrounds and substantial experience, who can provide appropriate 
guidance to the executive management.
• 
 There are pre-audit committee meetings of the chairman of the audit committee with the members of executive management who 
are process owners.
• 
 Presentations by executive management team members of the Company and its joint venture, subsidiaries are regularly made to 
familiarize directors with key elements of each business.
1. 
Board of Directors
 
i) 
Composition of Board
 
 
 The Company has a balanced and diverse Board. The Board provides leadership, strategic guidance, objective, and independent 
views to the Company’s management while discharging its fiduciary responsibilities, thereby ensuring that the management 
adheres to high standards of corporate ethics, transparency, professionalism, and disclosure, which drive the Company to 
sustainable excellence in performance. They take active part in the Board and Committee meetings and are committed to drive 
the Company’s superior performance. 
 
 
 The composition of the Board is governed by the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“Listing Regulations”). The 
Board comprises of an optimum combination of Executive and Non-Executive Directors including an Independent Woman 
Director. 
 
 
 Composition of the Board as on 31st March, 2023 is given herein below:
Category of Directors
No. of Directors
% of total no. of Directors
Executive
2
28.57
Independent
4
57.14
Non-Executive
1
14.29
Total
7
100
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
54
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT
Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance
PPAP Automotive Limited’s (“PPAP” or “Company”) philosophy for corporate governance is aimed at achieving the highest standards of 
corporate governance, accountability, sustainability, and compliance of all the laws, in the letter and spirit. 
We continuously follow ethical standards in all our business transactions which are guided by the Company’s culture, our principles, and 
our value system. The Company continues to implement national, as well as, international corporate governance practices, in order to 
achieve global level excellence in its functioning and to provide long-term value to its shareholders, stakeholders and to our society. 
The values of our Company are integrity, respect, innovation, openness, transparency, excellence, teamwork, responsibility and 
accountability, trust, honesty, safety and a shared and common purpose. The Company strongly believes that effective and good 
corporate governance practices build a strong foundation of trust and confidence which in turn attracts superior human capital which 
leads to sustainable and exceptional financial performance.
The Company continuously endeavors to improve all aspects of its business operations and adopts innovative approaches for leveraging 
all our resources, converting challenges into opportunities through empowerment and motivation of our human capital enabling the 
Company a higher growth trajectory.
Governance Structure
The Company’s governance practices are based upon self-performance and self-governance by all employees, depicting our culture of 
the trusteeship which is deeply ingrained in our culture, our principles and our value system. 
The Company is driven by the directions set by its Board of Directors who align the Company’s purpose of existence with the short-
medium and long-term expectations of its shareholders, as well as its stakeholders. 
The Board along with its sub committees, reviews the performance of the Company periodically and guides the management. The Board 
has established a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable the risks to be assessed timely and prudently managed. The 
Board oversees how the management and the leadership team work according to the established principles, the culture and the values 
of the Company. The Board acts as a mentor to our management and gives its wisdom and valuable insights to overcome current and 
future challenges and to constantly outperform the competition. 
The leadership team of our Company percolates the directions set by the Board throughout the organization, through policy deployment, 
responsibility and accountability matrix, daily work management, plan, check, act and reviews etc. This structure ensures that the entire 
organization is aligned to the common goal of challenging the status quo to achieve breakthrough results.
In line with the above, the Company has formed three tiers of corporate governance structure:
Board Leadership
PPAP is led by an effective and entrepreneurial Board. The Board defines the Company’s purpose, its culture, its principles, its value 
systems and sets the strategies to deliver superior results. The Board articulates the business model, strategies, and the approach to 
risks and their mitigation. It takes measures for the short, medium and long-term success, future value creation and future viability of the 
Company considering the technological changes, geopolitical threats, environmental impacts, changing shareholders’ and stakeholders’ 
expectations, etc. The Company’s operational and financial performance, statutory and regulatory compliances are reviewed by the 
Board from time to time. The Board also focuses on idea generation for business growth, opportunity identification, breakthroughs, and 
innovation. It identifies good and excellent business practices that can make our work culture constantly healthy and agile. 
57
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
iii) Change in Directors 
 
 
 Pursuant to the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, Mr. Abhishek Jain (DIN: 00137651), Chief Executive Officer and 
Managing Director, being liable to retire by rotation, shall retire at the ensuing AGM and being eligible offer himself for re-
appointment at the 28th Annual General Meeting.
 
 
 The Board of Directors upon the recommendation of Nomination and Remuneration Committee has re-appointed Mr. Ajay 
Kumar Jain (DIN: 00148839) as Chairman & Managing Director of the Company for a further period of three years w.e.f. 1st 
November, 2023 to 31st October, 2026, subject to the approval of shareholders at the ensuing Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
 
 
 Mr. Abhishek Jain (DIN: 00137651), Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director of your Company upon recommendation of 
nomination and remuneration committee and approval of Board and shareholders in the AGM held on 3rd September, 2021 has 
been re-appointed as Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director for a period of 3 years from 1st April, 2022 to 31st March, 2025.
 
 
 Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi (DIN: 03605973), was appointed as an Additional Director (Independent) by the Board of Directors, 
subject to shareholder approval for first term of five consecutive years with effect from 4th February, 2023 to 3rd February, 2028.
 
 
 Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi appointment as an Independent Director for first term of five consecutive years with effect from 4th 
February, 2023 to 3rd February, 2028 was approved by the shareholders by postal ballot on 31st March, 2023.
 
 
 The disclosure as required under the provisions of the Act, read with Secretarial Standards issued by Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India and Listing Regulations forms part of the Notice convening 28th Annual General Meeting.
 
iv) Board procedures
 
 
 The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman & Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer & Managing 
Director, plans the agenda of the meetings well in advance and circulates the agenda and other related documents to the 
members of the Board and committees within the prescribed time limit to enable them to have sufficient time to study, to 
facilitate meaningful and focused discussions at the meetings and take informed decisions.
 
 
 The agenda along with documents are circulated 7 (seven) days before the date of the meeting(s) in compliance with the Act, 
and secretarial standards issued by Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
 
 
 The members of the Board have always expressed their views & opinion and decisions are taken based on consensus arrived 
at after detailed discussions. The Board members bring up any matter for discussion at the Board meetings in consultation with 
the Chairman.
 
 
During the FY2023 the Board has accepted all the recommendations of the committees of Board.
 
 
 The Company Secretary plays a key role in ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and regularly reviewed, investors’ 
queries are handled promptly and reports to the Board.
 
 
 The Company Secretary attends all the meetings of the Board and its committees and is, inter alia, responsible for recording 
the minutes of the meetings of the Board and its committees. The draft minutes of the Board and its committees are sent to the 
Directors for their comments in compliance with the secretarial standards. 
 
 
 Senior management personnel are invited to the Board meetings as and when required to enable them to make requisite 
presentations on relevant issues or to provide necessary insights into the operations of the Company. Presentations are made 
by various departments to the Board on the progress of business activities and performance updates.
 
v) 
Independent directors
 
 
 The Independent Directors of the Company are individuals of eminence & repute in their respective fields and help in bringing 
an independent judgment to bear on the Board’s deliberations especially on issues of strategy, performance, risk management, 
resources, key appointments, corporate governance and standards of conduct.
 
 
 The Independent Directors provide an annual confirmation that they meet the criteria of independence as per Regulation 16(1)
(b) of the Listing Regulations and Section 149(6) of the Act, along with rules framed thereunder. Further, in terms of Regulation 
25(8) of the Listing Regulations, they have confirmed that they are not aware of any circumstance or situation which exists 
or may be reasonably anticipated that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties. Based on the declarations 
received from the Independent Directors, the Board of Directors has confirmed that they meet the criteria of independence and 
are independent from the management. 
 
 
Independent Director’s databank registration
 
 
 Pursuant to a notification dated 22nd October, 2019 issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”), all the Directors have 
registered/renewed the registration with the independent directors’ databank. Requisite disclosures have been received from 
the Independent Directors in this regard.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
56
 
 
 The names and categories of the Directors on the Board and the number of directorships and committee chairmanship(s) / 
membership(s) held by them in other companies as on 31st March, 2023 are given herein below: 
Sl. 
no
Name of Directors
Category
As on 31st March, 2023
Directorship in other 
Companies(1) 
Membership and 
chairmanship of the 
committees of the Board 
of other Companies(2)
Public 
companies
Private 
companies
Chairman 
Member
1
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director 
2
2
-
-
2
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Chief Executive Officer & 
Managing Director
2
3
-
-
3
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi Independent Director
1
-
-
-
4
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
Independent Director
-
-
-
-
5
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Non-Executive Director
-
1
-
-
6
Mrs. Celine George 
Independent Director 
-
1
-
-
7
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
Independent Director
1
-
-
-
 
 
 (1)Includes directorships held in public and private limited companies and excludes directorship in PPAP Automotive Limited.
 
 
 (2)For the purpose of determination of limit of the Board committees, chairmanship and membership of the audit and stakeholders 
relationship committees in other public limited companies have been considered. None of the Directors of your Company is a member 
of more than 10 committees or is the chairman of more than five committees across all the companies in which he / she is a director.
 
 
All directors of the Company hold directorship in one listed company i.e. PPAP Automotive Limited.
 
ii) 
 Skill, expertise and competencies of Directors
 
 
 The following core skills/expertise/competencies, as required in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively 
and those actually available with the Board have been identified by the Board of directors.
Skills
Mr. Ajay 
Kumar Jain
Mr. 
Abhishek 
Jain
Mr. 
Bhuwan 
Kumar 
Chaturvedi
Mr. Pravin 
Kumar 
Gupta
Mrs. Celine 
George
Mrs. 
Vinay 
Kumari 
Jain
Mr. Deepak 
Kumar 
Sethi
Knowledge / experience
Experience of CEO or senior 
management 
of 
similar 
industry or track record of 
superior results



-

-

Understanding of relevant 
laws, rules, regulation and 
policies







Sound 
understanding 
of 
human capital enrichment







Technical skills / experience
Administration



-



Financial literacy





-

Sales and Marketing



-
-
-

Compliances 
and 
risk 
mitigation





-

Behavioral competencies
High ethical standards of 
integrity and probity







Leadership 
and 
interpersonal skills







Mentoring abilities







59
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
A. 
Audit committee
 
 
 
 Your Company has a duly constituted Audit Committee (‘the Committee’) and its composition as well as charter are in line 
with the requirements of the Act, and the Listing Regulations. 
 
 
 
 All members of the Committee are financially literate and have accounting or related financial management expertise as 
mandated by the Listing Regulations.
 
 
 
 The Committee is governed by a charter which is in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by Regulation 
18 of the Listing Regulations. The functioning and terms of reference of the Committee including the role, powers 
and duties, quorum for meeting and frequency of meetings, have been devised keeping in view the requirements 
of the Act, and the Listing Regulations are broadly as under:
 
 
 
1. 
 Oversight of the listed entity’s financial reporting process and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that 
the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible.
 
 
 
2. 
Recommendation for appointment, remuneration and terms of appointment of auditors of the listed entity. 
 
 
 
3. 
Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other services rendered by the statutory auditors.
 
 
 
4. 
 Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial statements and auditor’s report thereon before submission to 
the board for approval, with particular reference to:
 
 
 
 
a. 
 Matters required to be included in the director’s responsibility statement to be included in the board’s report in 
terms of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 134 of the Companies Act, 2013.
 
 
 
 
b. 
Changes, if any, in accounting policies and practices and reasons for the same. 
 
 
 
 
c. 
Major accounting entries involving estimates based on the exercise of judgment by management. 
 
 
 
 
d. 
Significant adjustments made in the financial statements arising out of audit findings. 
 
 
 
 
e. 
Compliance with listing and other legal requirements relating to financial statements. 
 
 
 
 
f. 
Disclosure of any related party transactions. 
 
 
 
 
g. 
Modified opinion(s) in the draft audit report. 
 
 
 
5. 
Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial statements before submission to the board for approval.
 
 
 
6. 
 Reviewing, with the management, the statement of uses / application of funds raised through an issue (public issue, 
rights issue, preferential issue, etc.), the statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the 
offer document / prospectus / notice and the report submitted by the monitoring agency monitoring the utilisation of 
proceeds of a public or rights issue or preferential issue or qualified institutional placement, and making appropriate 
recommendations to the board to take up steps in this matter. 
 
 
 
7. 
Reviewing and monitoring the auditor’s independence and performance, and effectiveness of audit process.
 
 
 
8. 
Approval or any subsequent modification of transactions of the listed entity with related parties.
 
 
 
9. 
Scrutiny of inter-corporate loans and investments. 
 
 
 
10. Valuation of undertakings or assets of the listed entity, wherever it is necessary. 
 
 
 
11. Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk management systems. 
 
 
 
12.  Reviewing, with the management, performance of statutory and internal auditors, adequacy of the internal control 
systems. 
 
 
 
13.  Reviewing the adequacy of internal audit function, if any, including the structure of the internal audit department, 
staffing and seniority of the official heading the department, reporting structure coverage and frequency of internal 
audit. 
 
 
 
14. Discussion with internal auditors of any significant findings and follow up there on.
 
 
 
15.  Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by the internal auditors into matters where there is suspected 
fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal control systems of a material nature and reporting the matter to the board. 
 
 
 
16.  Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as post 
audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern. 
 
 
 
17.  To look into the reasons for substantial defaults in the payment to the depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in 
case of non-payment of declared dividends) and creditors. 
 
 
 
18. To review the functioning of the whistle blower mechanism. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
58
 
 
Separate meeting of the Independent Directors 
 
 
 The Independent Directors are fully kept informed of the Company’s business activities in all areas. The Independent Directors 
meet without the presence of non-independent Directors. This meeting enables the Independent Directors to interact and 
discuss matters including review of the performance of the non-independent Directors and the Board as a whole, review of 
the performance of the Chairman of the Company, taking into account views of executive and non-executive Directors and 
assessing the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company’s management and the Board that is 
necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform its duties.
 
 
The Independent Directors met on 25th March, 2023, during FY2023. 
 
 
 Performance evaluation criteria of independent directors
 
 
 Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and the Listing Regulations, the Board has carried out an annual performance evaluation 
of its own performance and that of its committees, chairman and individual directors.
 
 
The manner in which formal annual evaluation of performance was done by the Board is given below:
 
 
• 
 The Company sent an email which informed directors regarding the automated process to carry out annual performance 
evaluation in accordance with the criteria approved by nomination and remuneration committee.
 
 
• 
 From the individual ratings received from the directors, a report on summary of the ratings in respect of performance 
evaluation of the Board, committees, the chairman and directors for FY23 and a consolidated report thereof were arrived 
at.
 
 
• 
This report was then discussed and noted by the Board at their meeting held on 19th May, 2023.
 
 
• 
 The nomination and remuneration committee reviewed the implementation and compliance of the performance evaluation. 
Based on the report of performance evaluation, the Board and nomination and remuneration committee, determined as 
required under law that the appointment of independent directors may continue.
 
 
Details of the Board meetings and annual general meeting held during the year
 
 
 The details of attendance at the Board meetings held during FY2023 and at annual general meeting of the Company are as 
below:
Name of Directors
Attendance
Meeting 1 
13th May, 
2022
Meeting 2 
10th August, 
2022
Meeting 3  
12th November, 
2022
Meeting 4 
4th February, 
2023
Meeting 5  
25th March, 
2023
Last AGM  
16th September, 
2022
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain






Mr. Abhishek Jain






Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi






Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta






Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain






Mrs. Celine George






Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi(3)
-
-
-


-
 
 
 (3)Appointed w.e.f. 4th February, 2023
 
vi) Committees of the Board
 
 
 The Board has constituted a set of committees with specific terms of 
references and ensure expedient resolution of diverse matters and 
achieve objectivity. The minutes of the meetings of all committees of 
the Board are placed before the Board for confirmation. 
 
 
 Each committee of the Board is guided by its terms of reference, 
which defines the scope and powers of the committee.
 
 
 These committees play a crucial role in the governance structure 
of the Company and have been constituted to deal with specific 
activities which concern the Company and need a closer review. 
 
 
 The Company Secretary of the Company acts as the Secretary to 
all the committees.
Audit CommiƩee
Stakeholders
RelaƟonship
CommiƩee
NominaƟon and
RemuneraƟon
CommiƩee
Corporate Social
Responsibility
CommiƩee
Board of 
Directors
61
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
 The Committee is governed by a charter which is in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by Regulation 
19(4) of the Listing Regulations. The functioning and terms of reference of the NRC including the role, powers and 
duties and quorum for meeting, have been devised keeping in view the requirements of the Act, and the Listing 
Regulations are broadly as under:
 
 
 
1. 
 To identify persons who are qualified to become Directors and who may be appointed in senior management in 
accordance with the criteria laid down and to recommend to the Board their appointment and removal and to carry out 
evaluation of every director’s performance.
 
 
 
2. 
 For every appointment of an independent director, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall evaluate the 
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and on the basis of such evaluation, prepare a description of 
the role and capabilities required of an independent director. The person recommended to the Board for appointment 
as an independent director shall have the capabilities identified in such description.
 
 
 
3. 
 To formulate the criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of a Director and 
recommend to the Board a policy relating to the remuneration for the directors, key managerial personnel and other 
employees.
 
 
 
4. 
To formulate the criteria for evaluation of independent directors and the board.
 
 
 
5. 
To devise a policy on board diversity. 
 
 
 
6. 
 To extend or continue the term of appointment of the independent director on the basis of the report of performance 
evaluation of Independent directors; and
 
 
 
7. 
To recommend / review remuneration of managing director / whole-time director.
 
 
 
8. 
To recommend to the Board, all remuneration, in whatever form, payable to senior management. 
 
 
 
9. 
 For every appointment of an independent director, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee shall evaluate for 
the balancing the holistic set of skills, knowledge, wisdom, and experience on the Board. Based on such evaluation, 
prepare the role and responsibilities, qualifications, and capabilities required of an incoming independent director. The 
person recommended to the Board for appointment as an independent director shall have the capabilities identified in 
such description. To identify suitable candidates, the Committee may: 
 
 
 
 
a) 
use the services of an external agencies, 
 
 
 
 
b) 
consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds having due regard to diversity and, 
 
 
 
 
c) 
consider the time commitments of the candidates.
 
 
 
 The committee also acts as a compensation committee for implementation of the PPAP Automotive Limited Employee 
Stock Option Plan 2022.
 
 
 
Meetings, attendance & composition of the NRC: 
 
 
 
 During the year, the NRC met three times and quorum was present in the meeting. 
 
 
 
 The details of the NRC meeting and attendance of the members of NRC during FY2023 is as below:
Name of Committee 
Member
Designation
Category of 
Director
Attendance
Independent
Meeting 1
13th May, 
2022
Meeting 2
10th August, 
2022
Meeting 3
 12th 
November, 
2022
Meeting 4
 4th February, 
2023
Mrs. Celine George 
Chairperson





Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
Member





Mr. Bhuwan Kumar 
Chaturvedi 
Member





Mrs. Celine George, Chairperson of the NRC, was present at the AGM of the Company held on 16th September, 2022, to 
answer shareholders’ queries.
 
 
 
Remuneration to the Directors 
 
 
 
 The appointment of the executive directors is governed by resolutions passed by the shareholders of the Company, 
which covers the terms and conditions of such appointment, read with the service rules of the Company. A separate 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
60
 
 
 
19.  Approval of appointment of chief financial officer after assessing the qualifications, experience and background, etc. 
of the candidate. 
 
 
 
20.  Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the terms of reference of the audit committee. 
 
 
 
21.  Reviewing the utilization of loans and / or advances from / investment by the holding company in the subsidiary 
exceeding rupees 100 crore or 10% of the asset size of the subsidiary, whichever is lower including existing loans / 
advances / investments existing as on the date of coming into force of this provision. 
 
 
 
22.  Consider and comment on rationale, cost-benefits and impact of schemes involving merger, demerger, amalgamation 
etc., on the listed entity and its shareholders.
 
 
 
23. Management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 
 
 
 
24. Statement of significant related party transactions (as defined by the audit committee), submitted by management. 
 
 
 
25. Management letters / letters of internal control weaknesses issued by the statutory auditors.
 
 
 
26. Internal audit reports relating to internal control weaknesses. 
 
 
 
27.  The appointment, removal and terms of remuneration of the chief internal auditor shall be subject to review by the 
audit committee. 
 
 
 
28. Statement of deviations: 
 
 
 
 
a. 
 quarterly statement of deviation(s) including report of monitoring agency, if applicable, submitted to stock 
exchange(s) in terms of Regulation 32(1). 
 
 
 
 
b. 
 Annual statement of funds utilized for purposes other than those stated in the offer document/prospectus/notice 
in terms of Regulation 32(7).
 
 
 
 The details of the Committee meetings and attendance of the members of the Committee during FY2023 are as below:
 
 
 
 Meetings, attendance & composition of the audit committee:
Name of the 
Committee Member
Designation
Category of Director
Attendance
Independent
Executive
Meeting 1 
13th May, 
2022
Meeting 2  
10th August, 
2022
Meeting 3  
12th 
November, 
2022
Meeting 4 
4th February, 
2023
Mr. Pravin Kumar 
Gupta
Chairman

-




Mr. Bhuwan Kumar 
Chaturvedi
Member

-




Mr. Abhishek Jain
Member
-





 
 
 
 In addition to the members of the Committee, these meetings were attended by Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating 
Officer, internal auditors and statutory auditors of the Company, and those executives of the Company who were considered 
necessary for providing inputs to the Committee. 
 
 
 
 Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta, Chairman of the Committee was present at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 
16th September, 2022, to answer shareholders’ queries.
 
 
 
 The Committee relies on the expertise and knowledge of the management, the internal auditors, and the statutory auditor, 
in carrying out its oversight responsibilities. The management is responsible for the preparation, presentation and integrity 
of the Company’s financial statements including consolidated statements, accounting, and financial reporting principles. 
The management is also responsible for internal control over financial reporting and all procedures are designed to ensure 
compliance with Indian accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations as well as for objectively reviewing and 
evaluating the adequacy, effectiveness and quality of the Company’s system of internal controls. The recommendations of 
Committee were duly accepted by the Board of Directors.
 
 
B. 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee
 
 
 
 The Company has a duly constituted Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), which inter-alia, identifies and 
recommends persons who are qualified to become Directors.
 
 
 
 The NRC also has the responsibility of setting criteria for appointment of Directors, senior management, and Key Managerial 
Personnel (KMP) of the Company, recommending appointment & remuneration to the Board, performance evaluation of 
Directors and the Board, board diversity etc. The recommendations of NRC were duly accepted by the Board of Directors.
63
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
4. 
 Review of the various measures and initiatives taken by the Company for reducing the quantum of unclaimed 
dividends and ensuring timely receipt of dividend warrants / annual reports / statutory notices by the shareholders of 
the Company.
 
 
 
Meetings, attendance & composition of the SRC: 
 
 
 
During the year, the SRC met once. The quorum was present in the meeting.
 
 
 
 The details of the SRC meeting and attendance of the members of SRC during FY2023 are as below:
Name of Committee Member
Designation
Category of Director
Attendance
Independent
Non-
Executive
Executive
Meeting 1
13th May, 2022
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
Chairman

-
-

Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Member
-

-

Mr. Abhishek Jain
Member
-
-


 
 
 
Mrs. Shivani Sehgal, Compliance Officer resigned on 25th April, 2022.
 
 
 
 Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal is appointed as Compliance Officer w.e.f. 26th April, 2022. Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal, Company Secretary 
& Compliance Officer act as Secretary to SRC.
 
 
 
 Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta, Chairman of the SRC, was present at the AGM of the Company held on 16th September, 2022, 
to answer shareholders’ queries.
 
 
 
 Details of investors’ complaints handled by the Company and its registrar & share transfer agent during FY2023 
are as below: 
Number of complaints remaining unresolved as on 1st April, 2022
0
Number of complaints received during the year
0
Number of complaints resolved during the year
0
Number of complaints remaining unresolved as on 31st March, 2023
0
 
 
D. 
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee
 
 
 
 In terms of Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility) Rules, 
2014 as amended, the Board of Directors have approved a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy that strives 
towards welfare and sustainable development of the different segments of our society. 
 
 
 
 Your Company believes in making lasting impact towards creating a just, equitable, humane, and sustainable society. The 
Company’s endeavour to continuously evolve and ramp up the CSR activities in both social and environmental spheres 
improving the quality of life of our society through its CSR endeavours. The CSR initiatives of the Company are categorized 
into environment, education, and health care. 
 
 
 
 The CSR Policy is also available on the website of the Company and can be accessed by web link https://www.ppapco.in/
assets/pdf/policies/Corporate_Social_Responsibility_Policy.pdf
 
 
 
 The Committee is governed by a Charter which is in line with the regulatory requirements mandated under Section 
135 of the Companies Act, 2013. The functioning and terms of reference of the CSR committee including the role, 
powers and duties and quorum for meeting, have been devised keeping in view the requirements of Section 135 
of the Companies Act, 2013 are broadly as under:
 
 
 
1. 
To frame the CSR policy and its review from time to time.
 
 
 
2. 
Recommend the amount of expenditure to be incurred on the CSR activities.
 
 
 
3. 
Monitor implementation and adherence to the CSR policy of the Company from time to time.
 
 
 
4. 
To ensure compliance with the laws, rules & regulations governing the CSR; and
 
 
 
5. 
Such other activities as the Board of Directors may determine from time to time.
 
 
 
Meetings, attendance & composition of the CSR Committee: 
 
 
 
 During the year, the CSR committee met two times and quorum was present in both the meetings. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
62
service contract is not entered into by the Company with executive directors. No notice period or severance fee is 
payable to any Director.
 
 
 
 The independent directors were also paid sitting fees for their separate meeting held during the year.
 
 
 
Details of remuneration paid and securities held by executive directors during FY2023:
(` in lacs)
Name of Directors
Salary and 
perquisite 
Bonus
Commission 
Others
Total
No. of equity 
shares held
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain  
(Chairman & Managing Director)
120.40
0.17
120.57
38,67,180 
90,123(4)
Mr. Abhishek Jain  
(CEO & Managing Director)
70.00
0.17
4.2
74.77
10,02,404
 
 
 
(4)Holding equity shares in the name of Ajay Kumar Jain HUF as Karta.
 
 
 
The executive directors are not entitled to stock option and performance linked incentive.
 
 
 
Non-executive directors are paid sitting fees for attending the meeting of Board and Committees of Board. 
 
 
 
 Details of sitting fees paid to non-executive directors and equity shares held by them during FY2023:
(` in lacs)
Name of Directors
Sitting Fees
No. of equity shares held
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi 
5.76
-
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
5.40
-
Mrs. Celine George
3.60
-
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
1.08
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
2.88
5,33,890
 
 
 
Inter-se relationship between Directors 
 
 
 
The Directors’ inter-se relationship are as follows:
Name of Directors
Relationship with other Directors
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Husband of Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain and father of Mr. Abhishek Jain
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Wife of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain and mother of Mr. Abhishek Jain
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Son of Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain and Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
 
 
 
 There are no pecuniary relationships or transactions held with the non-executive director, other than the sitting fees drawn 
by the non-executive directors.
 
 
 
 Mr. Ramesh Chander Khanna, Chief Operating Officer and Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi, Vice President are the senior 
management personnel of the Company. During the financial year ended 31st March, 2023 there is no change among the 
senior management personnel of the Company.
 
 
C. 
Stakeholders Relationship Committee
 
 
 
 Stakeholders Relationship Committee (“SRC”) is responsible for redressal of shareholders complaints. The Board of 
Directors of the Company has with a view to expediting the process of share transfers, has delegated the power to 
Company Secretary who resolve the requests of share transfer. 
 
 
 
 The Committee is governed by a charter which is in line with the regulatory requirements mandated by Regulation 
20(4) read with Part D of Schedule II of the Listing Regulations. The functioning and terms of reference of the 
SRC including the role, powers and duties and quorum for meeting, have been devised keeping in view the 
requirements of Section 178 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations are broadly as under:
 
 
 
1. 
 Consider and resolve the grievances of security holders of the Company, including complaints related to transfer/
transmission of securities, non-receipt of annual report, non-receipt of declared dividends, issue of new / duplicate 
certificates, general meetings etc. 
 
 
 
2. 
Review of measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by shareholders.
 
 
 
3. 
 Review of adherence to the service standards adopted by the Company in respect of various services being rendered 
by the registrar & share transfer agent; and 
65
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
website of RTA ((https://instavote.linkintime.co.in) and by filing with BSE Ltd. (www.bseindia.com) and National Stock Exchange 
of India Ltd. (www.nseindia.com) where shares of the Company are listed. It were also be displayed on the Notice Board at the 
Registered Office & Corporate Office of the Company.
 
 
 Consolidated summary of results of Postal Ballot is as under:
 
 
i. 
 Appointment of Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi as an Independent Director of the Company for the first term of five consecutive 
years with effect from 4th February, 2023 to 3rd February, 2028.
Number of votes polled
No. of votes in favour
No. of votes against
9255563
9253676
1887
 
 
ii. 
 Payment of remuneration by way of commission to Non-Executive Directors for a period three financial years.
Number of votes polled
No. of votes in favour
No. of votes against
9255363
9252826
2537
 
 
Currently, no special resolution is proposed to be passed through postal ballot.
3. 
Disclosures
 
(a) Related party transactions
 
 
 All related party transactions entered during year under review are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of 
business. Prior omnibus approval of the Audit Committee is obtained for the transactions which are of a foreseen and repetitive 
nature. The statement of transactions entered pursuant to the omnibus approval so granted is placed before the Audit Committee 
for review on a quarterly basis.
 
 
 For reference, the details of related party transactions in accordance with IND AS–24 are given in note no. 40 in the notes to 
the Financial Statements.
 
 
 No material related party transactions i.e. transactions exceeding one thousand crore or ten percent of the annual consolidated 
turnover as per the last audited financial statements whichever is lower were entered during the year under review.
 
 
 The policy on related party transactions has been uploaded on the website of the Company and can be accessed at: https://
www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Related_Party_Transactions_Policy1.pdf.
 
(b)  Details of non-compliance by the Company, penalties and strictures imposed on the Company by Stock Exchange or 
Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) or any statutory authority
 
 
 The Company has complied with the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Board of India and other statutory authorities 
on all matters relating to capital markets during the last three years. 
 
 
 No penalties have been imposed or strictures passed against the Company by the stock exchanges, the Securities and 
Exchange Board of India or any statutory authority on any matter related to capital markets during the last three years.
 
(c) Disclosure of accounting treatment
 
 
 The Company has adopted Indian Accounting Standards as amended (“Ind AS”) and accordingly the financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with the recognition and measurement principles laid down in Ind AS as per the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended and notified under Section 133 and other relevant provisions of the 
Act, and the other accounting principles generally accepted in India.
 
(d) Whistle blower policy (Vigil mechanism)
 
 
 The Company has adopted whistle blower policy that provides a formal vigil mechanism for directors and employees to report 
genuine concerns about the unethical behaviour, actual or suspected frauds of violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct and 
Ethics. The directors and employees are not only encouraged but required to report their genuine concerns and grievances under 
this policy. The vigil mechanism under the whistle blower policy provides adequate safeguard against victimization of the directors 
and employees who avail of the mechanism and provide for direct access to the Chairman of the audit committee in exceptional 
cases. The Company affirms that no employee of the Company was denied access to the Chairman of the audit committee.
 
 
 This policy is also available on the Company’s website and is accessible at https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/WHISTLE_
BLOWER_POLICY-1_2.pdf
 
(e) Declaration by independent directors 
 
 
 The Company has received declarations from all the Independent Directors confirming that they meet the criteria of independence as 
prescribed under the provisions of Section 149(7) of the Act, read with the Schedules and Rules issued thereunder and Regulation 
16 of the Listing Regulations (including any statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force). 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
64
 
 
 
 The details of the CSR committee meetings and attendance of the members of the CSR committee during FY2023 are as 
below:
Name of Committee 
Member
Designation
Category of Director
Attendance
Independent
Non-
Executive
Executive
Meeting 1
13th May, 
2022
Meeting 2
12th November, 
2022
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar 
Chaturvedi
Chairman

-
-


Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Member
-

-


Mr. Abhishek Jain
Member
-
-



2. 
General body meetings 
 
a) 
Annual General Meetings:
 
 
Details of last three years annual general meetings of the Company are as under:
For the year
Venue
Day, Date & Time
N u m b e r 
of special 
resolutions
2021-22
Conducted through video conferencing / other audio-
visual means. Deemed location is the registered office of 
the Company at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase – III, 
New Delhi-110020.
Friday, 16th September, 2022 at 
11:30 a.m.
4
2020-21
Conducted through video conferencing / other audio-
visual means. Deemed location is the registered office of 
the Company at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase – III, 
New Delhi-110020.
Friday, 3rd September, 2021 at 
11:30 a.m.
3
2019-20
Conducted through video conferencing / other audio-
visual means. Deemed location is the registered office of 
the Company at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase – III, 
New Delhi-110020.
Friday, 25th September, 2020 at 
11:00 a.m. 
-
 
b) 
Postal ballot
 
 
 The Company has issued Postal Ballot Notice dated 25th February, 2023, in compliance with Section 110 read with Section 
108 and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Act, read with Rule 20 and Rule 22 of the Companies (Management and 
Administration) Rules, 2014 (“the Rules”) read with the General Circular No. 14/2020 dated 8th April, 2020, General Circular 
No. 17 / 2020 dated 13th April, 2020, in relation to extension of framework “Clarification on passing of ordinary and special 
resolutions by companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder on account of the threat posed by 
Covid - 19”, and General Circular No. 11/2022 dated 28th December, 2022, in relation to extension of the framework provided 
in the aforementioned circulars up to 30th September, 2023 (“MCA Circulars”), issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, 
Government of India, Regulation 44 of the Listing Regulations including any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof for 
the time being in force, Secretarial Standard -2 issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India and any other applicable 
laws and regulations to transact the below mentioned special businesses through special resolution by the members of PPAP 
Automotive Limited (“the Company”) through Postal Ballot by remote e-voting process (e-voting) only.
 
 
i. 
Appointment of Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi as an Independent Director of the Company
 
 
ii. 
Payment of remuneration by way of commission to Non-Executive Directors
 
 
 Voting rights were reckoned on the paid-up value of shares registered in the name of the members on Friday, the 17th February, 
2023.
 
 
 The remote e-voting period commenced on Thursday, 2nd March, 2023 at 9:00 A.M. and ended on Friday, 31st March, 2023 at 
05:00 P.M.
 
 
 The Company has appointed Mr. Chetan Gupta, Practicing Company Secretary (CP No. 7077) and Managing Partner at APAC 
& Associates LLP, Company Secretaries, as the Scrutinizer to ensure that the Postal Ballot process is conducted in a fair and 
transparent manner.
 
 
 The results were declared on Friday, 31st March, 2023 by posting the same on the website of the Company (www.ppapco.in), 
67
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
evaluation including contribution to the Board work, domain 
expertise, strategic vision, industry knowledge, participation, 
effectiveness, and quality of discussions etc. The Company 
has conducted online survey for evaluation of the Board and its 
Committees, Independent Directors, Non-Executive Directors, 
Executive Directors, and the Chairman of the Company.
 
 Performance of the Board was evaluated by each Director 
on the parameters such as its roles and responsibilities, 
business risks, contribution to the development of strategy 
and effective risk management, understanding of operational 
programmes, availability of quality information in a timely 
manner etc. Independent Directors also carried out evaluation 
of the Board performance.
 
 Board committees were evaluated by Board members on the 
parameters such as role and responsibilities, effectiveness 
of the committee vis-a-vis assigned role, appropriateness of 
committee composition, timely receipt of information by the 
committee, knowledge updation by the committee members etc.
 
 Directors were also evaluated individually by all other 
Directors (except the Director himself) on the parameters of 
his / her vigilance at the board meetings, devotion of time and 
efforts to understand the Company and its business, quality in 
contributions at the board meetings, application of knowledge 
and experience while considering the strategy, effectiveness 
of follow-up in the areas of concern, communication with 
board members, senior management and KMP. 
 
 The Directors expressed their satisfaction with the entire 
evaluation process.
5. 
Total fees paid to statutory auditors
 
 The total fees for all services paid by the Company, on a 
consolidated basis, to the statutory auditors and all entities in 
the network firm / network entity of which the statutory auditor 
is a part, are as follows:
(` in lacs)
Type of Service
31st March, 2023
Audit fees
9.70
Tax fees
3.96
Others
0.45
Total
14.11
6. 
CEO and CFO certification
 
 The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of 
the Company give annual certification on financial reporting 
and internal controls to the Board in terms of requirements 
of the Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations. The Chief 
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer also give 
quarterly certification on financial results while placing the 
financial results before the Board in terms of requirements of 
the Regulation 33 (2) of the Listing Regulations. 
 
 In terms of Regulation 17(8) of the Listing Regulations, 
the certificate duly signed by the Managing Director & 
Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of 
the Company was placed before the Board, certifying the 
accuracy of financial statements (standalone & consolidated) 
and the adequacy of internal controls pertaining to financial 
reporting for the year ended 31st March, 2023 and is annexed 
to this report.
7. 
Familiarization program for Independent Directors 
 
 Familiarization program for Independent Directors form a 
part of the Board process. The Board familiarization program 
consists of detailed induction for all new Independent Directors 
when they join the Board of Directors of the Company and 
ongoing sessions on business strategy, operational and 
functional matters. 
 
 The exhaustive induction for Independent Directors enables 
them to be familiarized with the Company, its history, its culture, 
its principles, its values, and its purpose of existence. The 
Managing Director & CEO also makes presentations in order to 
facilitate clear understanding of the business of the Company 
and the environment in which the Company operates.
 
 The Independent Directors are updated on an on-going 
basis at the Board / Committee meetings, inter-alia, on the 
following:
 
• 
Nature of the industry in which the Company operates.
 
• 
Business important developments.
 
• 
 Important changes in regulatory framework having 
impact on the Company.
 
• 
 Discussion on the state of economy, preparedness for 
changes etc.; and
 
• 
 The manufacturing facilities of the Company at its 
various locations.
 
 The Company provides an overview to its Directors by way of 
detailed presentations by the various business & functional 
heads at Board meetings. Besides these, the Directors 
are updated about Company’s new projects, research & 
development initiatives, changes in regulatory environment 
and strategic direction. The Company also arranges for visits 
to the Company’s Plants to enable them to get understanding 
of the processes and operations of the Company.
 
 The familiarization program along with details imparted to the 
Independent Directors during the year are available on the 
Company’s website and is accessible at https://www.ppapco.
in/assets/pdf/policies/Familiarization_programme_FY23_
Annexure-VIII.pdf
8. 
Code of conduct and ethics
 
 The Company has code of conduct for all employees 
including the members of the Board and senior management 
personnel. All members of the Board and senior management 
personnel have affirmed compliance with the said code of 
conduct for the financial year 2022-23. 
 
 The declaration to this effect signed by the CEO & Managing 
Director of the Company forms part of this Report.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
66
 
(f) 
Training of board members
 
 
 The Directors on Board are experienced professionals 
having wide range of expertise in diverse fields. They 
keep themselves abreast with latest developments in 
the field of management, technology and business 
environment through various symposiums, seminars 
etc. 
 
(g)  Sexual 
Harassment 
of Women 
at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013
 
 
 The Company has an internal complaints committee 
under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace 
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 and 
Rules framed thereunder, to redress the complaints 
received regarding sexual harassment. The following is 
the summary of sexual harassment complaints received 
and disposed off during the financial year 2022-23:
Number of complaints filed during the 
financial year
Nil
Number of complaints disposed of during 
the financial year
Nil
Number of complaints pending as on end 
of the financial year
Nil
 
(h) 
 Payment of dividend through electronic means
 
 
 The Company provides the facility for direct credit 
of the dividend to the shareholders’ bank account. 
The Listing Regulations also mandate companies to 
credit the dividend to the shareholders electronically. 
Shareholders who hold shares in demat mode 
should inform their depository participant, whereas 
shareholders holding shares in physical form should 
inform the Company their updated bank account details. 
 
(i) 
Foreign currency exchange rates
 
 
 Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded in 
INR at exchange rates prevailing on the date of the 
transaction. Foreign currency monetary assets and 
liabilities are reported at the exchange rates prevailing 
at the year end and exchange differences arising on 
settlement or translation are recognised in statement of 
profit and loss. Non-monetary items that are measured 
in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are 
translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the 
initial transactions. 
 
(j) 
Risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations
 
 
 The Company uses foreign exchange forward, option 
and futures contracts to hedge its risks associated with 
foreign currency fluctuations relating to certain firm 
commitments and forecasted transactions. The use of 
hedging instruments is governed by the Company’s 
hedging policy as approved by the Board of Directors.
 
(k) 
 Disclosure of compliance of Regulation 17 to 27 and 
clauses (b) to (i) of sub-Regulation (2) of Regulation 
46
 
 
 The Company has complied with all the applicable 
mandatory requirements specified in Regulations 17 
to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of Regulation 46(2) of the 
Listing Regulations. 
 
(l) 
 Certificate for transfer of shares and reconciliation 
of share capital
 
 
 As stipulated by the Securities and Exchange Board 
of India, practising company secretary conducts the 
reconciliation of share capital audit of the Company for 
the purpose of reconciliation of total admitted capital 
with the depositories, i.e. National Securities Depository 
Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) 
Limited (CDSL) and the total issued and listed capital of 
the Company. 
 
 
 The Company Secretary in practice conducts such audit 
in every quarter and issues a reconciliation of share 
capital audit certificate to this effect to the Company. 
A copy of such audit report is submitted to the stock 
exchanges, where the Company’s shares are listed. 
 
(m)  Discretionary requirements under Regulation 27 of 
the Listing Regulations
 
 
 The 
status 
of 
compliance 
with 
discretionary 
recommendations of the Regulation 27 of the Listing 
Regulations with stock exchanges are provided below:
 
 
a.  The Board: As the Chairman of the Company is 
an executive chairman, hence the provision on 
entitlement of chairperson’s office at the expense of 
the Company in case of non-executive chairperson 
is not applicable. 
 
 
b.  Shareholder rights: The quarterly and year to date 
financial statements are published in newspapers 
and uploaded on Company’s website.
 
 
c.  Modified opinion in auditors’ report: The 
auditors have expressed an unmodified opinion 
on the financial statements of the Company for the 
financial year ended 31st March, 2022.
 
 
d.  Reporting of internal auditor: Internal auditors 
periodically apprise the audit committee on findings 
and observation, if any of internal audit and actions 
taken thereon.
4. 
Evaluation of the Board’s performance
 
 Pursuant to the provisions of Section 178 of the Companies 
Act, 2013 and Regulation 19 of the Listing Regulations, 
the Board has adopted a policy to evaluate performance of 
each Director, the Board as a whole, its Committees and the 
Chairman. Evaluation is carried out by the Board, NRC and 
by the Independent Directors. A structured questionnaire 
was prepared for the Directors considering various factors for 
69
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
17. Means of communication
 
 The Company, from time to time and as may be required, communicates with its shareholders and investors through multiple 
channels of communications such as dissemination of information on the online portal of the stock exchanges, the annual reports 
and uploading relevant information on its website.
 
a. 
 Quarterly and annual financial results: Pursuant to Regulation 33 of the Listing Regulations, the Company furnishes the 
quarterly as well as annual financial results, (within 30 minutes of closure of the Board meeting) by online filings, to both the 
stock exchanges i.e. National Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE). Such information has also been 
simultaneously displayed in the ‘Investors’ section on the Company’s website at www.ppapco.in.
 
 
 Quarterly and annual financial results are published in all the editions of ‘Business Standard’ newspaper (English & Hindi) and 
Financial Express (Gujarati). 
 
b. 
 Presentations to institutional investors / analysts: Presentations made to institutional investors or to the analysts are 
displayed on Company’s website at www.ppapco.in. and intimated to both the stock exchanges i.e. National Stock Exchange of 
India Limited (NSE) and BSE Limited (BSE)
 
c. 
 Website: Pursuant to Regulation 46 of the Listing Regulations, the Company’s website www.ppapco.in contains a dedicated 
functional segment called ‘Investors’ where all the information needed by shareholders is available including information on 
Directors, shareholding pattern, quarterly reports, financial results, annual reports and various policies of the Company. 
 
d. 
 SEBI complaints redress system (SCORES): The investor complaints are processed in a centralized web-based complaints 
redress system. The salient features of this system are: Centralized database of all complaints, online upload of action taken 
reports by concerned companies and online viewing by investors of actions taken on the complaint and its status.
 
e. 
 Designated exclusive email-id: The Company has designated the e-mail id investorservice@ppapco.com for investor 
servicing. Investors can also mail their queries to Registrar and Share Transfer Agent at delhi@linkintime.co.in. 
 
f. 
 A Greener Environment-now and for future: The Company’s philosophy focuses on making the environment greener for the 
benefit of posterity. To leverage technology and reducing paper consumption, the Company circulates to its directors, notes for 
board / committee meetings though an electronic platform. Each Director has been provided with tablet for the board meetings. 
Your Company encourages its shareholders to register / update the e-mail ids for communication purpose thereby contributing 
to the environment.
18. Shareholders’ information
i)
AGM
Day
: 
Friday
Date
:
15th September, 2023
Time
:
11:30 a.m.
Mode
:
Through video conferencing / other audio-visual means 
(Deemed venue-54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New 
Delhi-110020)
ii)
Financial year
:
1st April to 31st March
iii)
Quarterly Unaudited Financial Results
Quarter ending 30th June, 2023
:
On or before 14th August, 2023
Quarter ending 30th September, 2023
:
On or before 14th November, 2023
Quarter ending 31st December, 2023
:
On or before 14th February, 2024
iv)
Annual Audited Financial Results
Year ending 31st March, 2024
:
On or before 30th May, 2024
v)
Date of Book closure
:
Saturday, 9th September, 2023 to Thursday, 14th September, 
2023 (both days inclusive)
vi)
Dividend Payment Date
Final dividend 2022-2023 of Re. 0.5/- per equity share 
recommended by the Board of Directors at its meeting held 
on 19th May, 2023 subject to the approval of shareholders
:
If approved, will be paid within 30 days from the date of AGM.
vii)
Listing on stock exchanges
National Stock Exchange of India Limited
Exchange Plaza, Bandra Kurla Complex
Bandra (E), Mumbai-400051
BSE Limited
Phiroje Jeejeebhoy Towers
Dalal Street, Mumbai 400001
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
68
 
 The code of conduct and ethics for Board members and senior management can be accessed at the following link: https://www.
ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V3.pdf 
9. 
Subsidiary companies
 
 All the subsidiary companies are managed by their respective board of directors. Their boards have the rights and obligations to 
manage such companies in the best interest of their stakeholders.
 
 The Company has the policy for determining material subsidiaries and can be accessed at: https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/
policies/POLICY_FOR_DETERMINING_MATERIAL_SUBSIDIARIES1.pdf
 
During FY23 the Company has no material subsidiary.
10. Code of conduct for prevention of insider trading
 
 Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015, the Company has 
code of conduct for regulating, monitoring, and reporting of trading by designated persons (‘the code of conduct’) and the code of 
practices and procedures for fair disclosure of unpublished price sensitive information (“code of practice”). The code of conduct 
ensures reporting of trading by the designated persons and their immediate relatives. The code of practice ensures fair disclosure 
of events and occurrences that could impact price discovery in the market.
11.  Compliance certificate from the practicing company secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of corporate 
governance
 
 The certificate from the practicing company secretaries regarding compliance of conditions of corporate governance is annexed and 
forms an integral part of this report.
12.  Compliance certificate from the Practicing Company Secretaries regarding debarred or disqualified Directors 
 
 The certificate from the Practicing Company Secretaries regarding debarred or disqualified Directors not being appointed or 
continuing as Directors of Company by the Securities and Exchange Board of India / MCA or any such statutory authority is annexed 
and forms an integral part of this report.
13. Unclaimed securities suspense account 
 
 As per SEBI directive, outstanding unclaimed shares have been transferred to unclaimed securities suspense account and the voting 
rights on these shares remain frozen till the rightful owner claims such shares:
Particulars
Number of 
shareholders
Number of 
equity shares
Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding shares lying in the unclaimed 
suspense account as on 1st April, 2022.
28
1,687
Number of shareholders who approached the Company for transfer of shares and shares 
transferred from suspense account during the year.
-
-
Number of shareholders and aggregate number of shares transferred to the unclaimed 
suspense account during the year.
-
-
Aggregate number of shareholders and outstanding shares in the suspense account lying 
as on 31st March, 2023.
28
1,687
14. Transfer of Shares to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) 
 
 In terms of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 6 of Investors Education and Protection Fund Authority 
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (as amended from time to time) (“Rules”), if a shareholder does not claim the 
dividend amount for a consecutive period of seven years or more, then the shares held by him / her shall be transferred to the demat 
account of Investors Education and Protection Fund Authority (‘IEPFA’) constituted in accordance with the Rules.
 
 During FY2023, the Company has transferred 4254 shares in IEPFA. The total 9386 equity shares are lying with the IEPFA as on 
31st March 2023. The details of the shareholders whose shares are transferred with IEPFA are also posted on the website of the 
Company i.e. www.ppapco.in. The unclaimed shares which have been transferred, can be claimed back by the shareholders from 
IEPFA by following the procedure as prescribed in the Rules. 
15. Credit rating
 
 CRISIL, the reputed rating agency, has assigned the credit rating of the Company on the long-term bank facilities at ‘CRISIL A/ 
Negative’ and short-term bank facilities at ‘CRISIL A1 (Reaffirmed).
16. Details of loans and advances in which directors are interested are given in note no. 14 in the notes to the Financial Statements.
71
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
xii)
Address of Registrar and Share Transfer Agent
:
Link Intime India Private Limited 
Noble Heights, 1st Floor, Plot NH 2, C-1 Block LSC, Near 
Savitri Market, Janakpuri, New Delhi - 110058
Email: delhi@linkintime.co.in
Website: www.linkintime.co.in
Tel: +91-11-41410592 / 93 / 94
xiii)
Share transfer system 
SEBI had mandated that, effective from 1st April, 2019, securities of listed companies can only be transferred in dematerialized 
form except where the claim is lodged for transmission or transposition of shares. Members holding shares in physical form are 
requested to consider converting their holdings to dematerialized form. Further SEBI vide Circular dated 25th January, 2022 on 
“Issuance of Securities in dematerialized form in case of Investor Service Requests” has mandated the Listed Companies to 
issue securities in demat form only while processing service requests viz. Issue of duplicate securities certificate; claim from 
Unclaimed Suspense Account; Renewal/ Exchange of securities certificate; Endorsement; Subdivision/ Splitting of securities 
certificate; Consolidation of securities certificates/ folios; Transmission and Transposition. 
As per the requirement of Regulation 40(9) of the Listing Regulations, the Company has obtained the certificate from the 
Company Secretary in practice for due compliance of share transfer formalities.
xiv)
Information of dividend
Information in respect of the unclaimed dividend as on 31st March, 2023, will be uploaded on the website of Investor Education 
and Protection Fund (“IEPF”) of the Government (www.iepf.gov.in) and on the website of the Company (www.ppapco.in). 
Dividends, if not en-cashed for a consecutive period of 7 years, from the date of transfer to unpaid/ unclaimed dividend account 
of the Company, are liable to be transferred to IEPF. Further, the shares of a member who does not en-cash his dividend for a 
continuous period of 7 years, are also liable to be transferred to the Demat account of IEPF Authority.
xv)
Distribution of shareholding 
Details of category wise shareholding as on 31st March, 2023 are as below:
Categories
No. of shareholders
Percentage
No. of shares held
Percentage
1-500
15961
95.6207
1124427
8.0316
501-1000
369
2.2106
286290
2.0449
1001-2000
177
1.0604
264481
1.8892
2001-3000
69
0.4134
170479
1.2177
3001-4000
19
0.1138
69520
0.4966
4001-5000
18
0.1078
82540
0.5896
5001-10000
35
0.2097
266853
1.9061
10001-above
44
0.2636
11735410
83.8244
TOTAL
16692
100.00
1,40,00,000
100.00
xvi) Dematerialization of shares 
 
 The equity shares of the Company are being traded under compulsorily demat form as per SEBI notification. The Company’s shares 
are tradable compulsorily in electronic form and are available for trading in the depository systems of both National Securities 
Depository Limited (NSDL) and Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL).
S. No.
Mode of holding
No. of shares
% of total share capital
1.
Physical 
94
0.00
2.
CDSL
477 5351
34.11
3.
NSDL
9224555
65.89
 
Total
1,40,00,000
100.00
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
70
viii)
Stock code
BSE 
:
532934
NSE
:
PPAP
ISIN No.
:
INE095I01015
ix) 
Listing fees
The Company has paid listing fees up to the financial year ended 31st March, 2024 to BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange 
of India Limited where Company’s securities are listed.
x)
Market price data
Market price of shares on NSE and BSE during the financial year 2022-23 is as below:
Month
NSE
BSE
Nifty close
PPAP share price
Sensex close
PPAP share price
(` Per share)
(` Per share)
High
Low
Close
High
Low
Close
Apr-22
17102.55
231.00
190.25
213.80
57060.87
230.00
192.35
212.65
May-22
16584.55
220.00
172.95
196.10
55566.41
218.95
168.70
196.35
Jun-22
15780.25
202.50
175.00
188.95
53018.94
210.00
174.65
191.35
Jul-22
17158.25
234.00
187.00
220.10
57570.25
232.25
188.00
219.30
Aug-22
17759.30
250.00
209.85
224.95
59537.07
248.60
210.35
225.05
Sep-22
17094.35
243.95
200.55
205.55
57426.92
244.20
201.45
205.75
Oct-22
18012.20
227.05
202.55
209.25
60746.59
235.00
202.05
211.15
Nov-22
18758.35
217.95
187.05
214.15
63099.65
218.00
186.40
214.75
Dec-22
18105.30
280.35
213.00
242.45
60840.74
282.80
210.05
237.50
Jan-23
17662.15
244.00
212.10
228.35
59549.90
251.85
218.50
223.25
Feb-23
17303.95
237.95
188.00
194.75
58962.12
233.75
187.40
195.00
Mar-23
17359.75
195.05
148.75
157.00
58991.52
198.00
147.85
156.00
    
Source: www.nseindia.com & source: www.bseindia.com
xi)
Compliance officer 
Name
:
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal
Designation
:
Company Secretary & Compliance Officer
Tel
:
+91-120-4093901
Email
:
investorservice@ppapco.com
73
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
CERTIFICATION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY 
FOR YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
The Board of Directors,
PPAP Automotive Limited
We, the undersigned, in the capacities as Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of PPAP Automotive 
Limited (“the Company”), to the best of our knowledge and belief, hereby certify that:
a) 
 We have reviewed financial statements (standalone and consolidated) of the Company for the year ended on 31st March, 2023, and 
that to the best of our knowledge and belief we state that : 
 
i. 
 these statements do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements that might be 
misleading; 
 
ii. 
 these statements together present a true and fair view of the Company’s affairs and are in compliance with existing accounting 
standards, applicable laws and regulations.
b) 
 There are, to the best of their knowledge and belief, no transactions entered into by the Company during the year which are 
fraudulent, illegal or violate the Company’s code of conduct.
c) 
 We accept responsibility for establishing and maintaining internal controls for financial reporting and that they have evaluated the 
effectiveness of internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting and they have disclosed to the auditors and 
the audit committee, deficiencies in the design or operation of such internal controls, if any, of which they are aware and the steps 
they have taken or propose to take to rectify these deficiencies. 
d) 
We have indicated to the auditors and the audit committee:
 
i. 
significant changes in internal control, if any, over financial reporting during the year; 
 
ii. 
 significant changes in accounting policies during the year, if any, and that the same have been disclosed in the notes to the 
financial statements; and 
 
iii. 
 instances of significant fraud of which we have become aware and the involvement therein, if any, of the management or an 
employee having a significant role in the listed entity’s internal control system over financial reporting.
Place: Noida 
Abhishek Jain 
Sachin Jain
Date: 19th May, 2023 
CEO & Managing Director 
Chief Financial Officer
DECLARATION UNDER PART D OF SCHEDULE V OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) 
REGULATIONS, 2015
Dear Members,
PPAP Automotive Limited
I hereby confirm that all the members of the Board and Senior Managerial Personnel of the Company have affirmed due observance of 
the Code of Conduct and Ethics of the Company during the financial year 2022-23.
Place: Noida 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 19th May, 2023 
Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
72
xvii) Details of Shareholding Pattern as on 31st March, 2023 are as below:
S. No.
Category
Total number of shares
% of total number of shares
A.
Promoters & Promoters’ Group
i
Individual / Hindu Undivided Family
55,39,137
39.57
ii
Bodies Corporate 
35,61,730
25.44
Total Shareholding of Promoters & Promoters’ Group (A)
91,00,867
65.01
B.
Public Shareholding
i
Foreign Portfolio Investor 
798013
5.70
ii
Bodies Corporate
509729
3.64
iii
Foreign Companies
2,25,000
1.61
iv
Individuals
2776420
19.83
vi
Others
 
Non Resident Indians
475599
3.40
IEPF Authority
9392
0.07
Trusts
318
0.00
HUF
102122
0.73
Clearing Member
2540
0.01
Total Public Shareholding (B)
4899133
34.99
 
Total (A+B)
1,40,00,000
100.00
xviii)
Outstanding GDR / ADR / Warrants or any convertible instrument, conversion date and likely impact on equity
No outstanding GDR / ADR / Warrants or any convertible instrument as on 31st March, 2023.
xix)
Details of utilisation of funds through preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement as specified under 
Regulation 32(7) of the Listing Regulations
No funds are raised through preferential allotment or qualified institutional placement.
xx)
Securities are not suspended from trading during the financial year ending 31st March, 2023.
xxi)
The Company’s plants are located at Noida (Uttar Pradesh), Surajpur (Uttar Pradesh), Pathredi (Rajasthan), Vallam Vadagal 
(Tamil Nadu) and Viramgam (Gujarat).
xx)
Registered office
:
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
Tel: +91-011-26311671 / 26910777
E-mail: investorservice@ppapco.com
Address for correspondence and 
corporate office
:
B-206A, Sector-81, Phase-II, 
Noida-201305, U.P.
Tel: +91-120-4093901
E-mail: investorservice@ppapco.com
75
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C Clause (10)(i) of the SEBI  
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015]
To 
The Members,
PPAP Automotive Limited
54, Okhla Industrial Estate,
Phase-III, Delhi-110020
We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of PPAP Automotive 
Limited having CIN L74899DL1995PLC073281 and having registered office at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase III Delhi 110020 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance 
with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations 
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the verifications (including Directors Identification Number (DIN) status 
at the portal www.mca.gov.in) as considered necessary and explanations furnished to us by the Company & its officers, we hereby certify 
that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company, as stated below for the financial year ending on March 31, 2023, have been 
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, 
the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
S. 
No.
Name of Directors
Current Designation
DIN
Date of original 
appointment in 
Company
Date 
of 
appointment 
at 
current 
designation
Date 
of 
cessation, if 
any
Remarks
1
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman and 
Managing Director
00148839 18.10.1995
01.11.2018
-
-
2
Mr. Abhishek Jain
Managing Director and 
Chief Executive Officer
00137651 01.12.2006
01.04.2022
-
-
3
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi Independent Director
00144487 26.12.2013
26.12.2018
-
-
4
Mrs. Celine George
Independent Director
02563846 16.04.2020
16.04.2022
-
-
5
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
Independent Director
06491563 01.04.2014
01.04.2019
-
-
6
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi*
Independent Director
03605973 04.02.2023
04.02.2023
-
-
7
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
Non-Executive Director
00228718 26.12.2013
26.12.2013
-
-
*Mr. Deepak Sethi was appointed as Additional Director (Independent) of the Company through Board resolution passed on 4th February, 2023 which was 
further approved by members of the Company by way of postal ballot by remote e-voting process, on 31st March, 2023.
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the 
Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. 
This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which 
management has conducted the affairs of the Company. 
 
For VLA & Associates
Company Secretaries
Vishal Lochan Aggarwal
(Proprietor)
Place: New Delhi 
Membership No.: F7241
Date: 19.05.2023  
C. P. No.: 7622
UDIN: F007241E000338803
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
74
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CONDITIONS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE UNDER SCHEDULE V OF THE SEBI 
(LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015
To the Members,
PPAP Automotive Limited
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, 
Phase III, Delhi-110020
1. 
 We have reviewed the implementation of the corporate governance procedures by PPAP Automotive Limited (“the Company”) during 
the year ended March 31st 2023, with the relevant records and documents maintained by the Company, furnished to us for our review 
and report on Corporate Governance, as approved by the Board of Directors.
2. 
 The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management. Our examination was limited 
to procedure and implementation thereof, adopted by the Company for ensuring the compliance of the conditions of Corporate 
Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of the opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
3. 
 We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or 
effectiveness with which the management has to conduct the affairs of the Company.
4. 
 On the basis of our review and according to the best of our information and according to the explanation given to us, the Company 
has been complying with conditions of Corporate Governance, as stipulated in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
 
For NKJ & ASSOCIATES
Company Secretaries
NEELESH KR. JAIN
Proprietor
Place: New Delhi 
FCS No.: 5593
Date: 19th May, 2023  
C.P. No.: 5233
UDIN: F005593E000319797
77
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
II. 
Products/ Services
14. Details of business activities: 
Description of Main Activity group
Description of Business Activity
% of Turnover of PPAP
Manufacturing of automotive parts
Manufacturing of automotive parts for 
passenger vehicles & two-wheelers
90%
15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
S. No.
Product/ Service
NIC Code
% of total Turnover contributed
1
Manufacture of parts and accessories for motor vehicles 
34300
100%
III. Operations
16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
Location
Number of plants
Number of offices
Total
National
5
2
7
International
Nil
Nil
Nil
17. Markets served by PPAP:
a.
Locations
Number
National (No. of States) 
9
International (No. of Countries) 
Nil
b. 
What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity? 
Nil
c. 
A brief on types of customers
 
PPAP’s esteemed clientele includes all major OEM vehicle manufacturer and tier-2 suppliers of OEM:
 
 Passenger vehicles clientele includes Maruti Suzuki India Limited, Honda Cars India Limited, Toyota Kirloskar Motors, Hyundai, 
Toyota Boshoku, Kia Motors, SKODA Auto Volkswagen India Private Limited, Renault Nissan, ISUZU, Mahindra, Magna Corp, 
Hyundai Mobis, Motherson, Unitex, Moriroku Technology India Private Limited, TS Tech Co. Limited, Asahi India Glass Limited, 
Saint-Gobain, Polyplastics Industries (I) Private Limited etc.
 
 Commercial vehicle clientele includes SML ISUZU, Faurecia. 
 
 Two-wheeler clientele includes Suzuki, Roki UNO Minda, TS Tech Co. Ltd, Motovolt, Sankei Pragati India Private Limited, JRG 
Automotive Industries India Private Limited, etc.
 
Tooling clientele includes International Automotive Components, Amber, Havells, Aisin Group, etc.
 
Pail Containers clientele includes Dayal Group, MD Biocoals (P) Limited.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
76
PREFACE
The Securities & Exchange Board of India (SEBI) through a notification dated 5 May 2021 has made amendments to certain provisions 
of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (LODR), As per the notification, companies would 
be required to submit a new report on ESG parameters, namely Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR). The Indian 
capital markets regulator, SEBI, shall get credit for taking the lead in developing the BRSR framework. It is a comprehensive framework, 
which calls for more measurable, quantitative metrics to facilitate better benchmarking. For the top 1,000 Indian listed entities based on 
market capitalisation on the BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited, are required to submit a Business Responsibility 
and Sustainability Report (BRSR). The BRSR is voluntary for Financial Year 2022 and mandatory from Financial Year 2023 onwards.
PPAP is voluntarily disclosing its 2nd Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for FY 2022-23, providing information on key 
business environment, social and governance responsibility initiatives undertaken by the Company. The ESG performance of the 
Company is assessed quarterly by PPAP’s Top management.
We are dedicated towards developing engagement with our stakeholders to achieve our mission to be a global level excellence company.
SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES
I. 
Company details
S.No.
Details
1
Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of PPAP:
L74899DL1995PLC073281
2
Name of Company:
PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
3
Year of incorporation:
18-10-1995
4
Registered office address:
54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
5
Corporate office address:
B-206A, Sector-81, Phase-II, Noida-201305, Uttar 
Pradesh
6
E-mail:
compliance@ppapco.com
7
Telephone:
91-120-4093901
8
Website:
https://www.ppapco.in/
9
Financial year for which reporting is being done:
2022-23
10
Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed
Equity shares are listed on BSE Limited (BSE) and National 
Stock Exchange of India Limited (NSE)
11
Paid-up Capital (in INR Cr)
14,00,00,000
12
Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the 
person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the 
BRSR report
Mr. Ramesh Chander Khanna
Landline number: +91-120-4093901
Email Id: sustainability@ppapco.com 
13
Reporting boundary 
Disclosures made in this report are on a standalone basis 
and limited to PPAP Automotive Limited
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
79
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
V. 
Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
21. Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures: As of March 31, 2023
S. 
No.
Name of the holding / 
subsidiary / associate 
companies / joint  
ventures (A)
Indicate whether holding/ 
Subsidiary/ Associate/ 
Joint Venture
% of shares held 
by listed entity
Does the entity indicated at column 
A, participate in the Business 
Responsibility initiatives of the 
listed entity? (Yes/No)
1
PPAP Technology Limited
Wholly owned subsidiary
100%
Yes, PPAP positively influences and 
encourages its group companies to 
adopt Business Responsibility (BR) 
initiatives.
2
Elpis Components Distributors 
Private Limited
Wholly owned subsidiary
100%
3
PPAP 
Tokai 
India 
Rubber 
Private Limited
Joint Venture
50%
VI. CSR Details:
22. (a) (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135: (Yes/No) 
Yes, applicable.
 
 
(ii) Turnover (in `): 495.62 Cr
 
 
(iii) Net worth (in `): 316.41 Cr
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23. Complaints/Grievances on any aspect of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct in the financial year:
Stakeholder 
group from whom 
complaint is 
received
Grievance 
Redressal 
Mechanism 
in Place
2022-23
2021-22
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of year
Remarks
Number of 
complaints 
received 
during the 
year
Number of 
complaints 
pending 
resolution at 
close of year
Remarks
Shareholders
Yes
-
-
-
1
-
-
Employees
Yes
5
0
-
-
-
-
Customers
Yes
30
0
-
45
0
-
Value Chain Partners
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
Investors (other than 
shareholders)
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
Communities
Yes
-
-
-
-
-
-
PPAP has established a code of conduct & ethics policy, code of fair disclosure policy and whistle-blower policy to allow for the expression 
of concerns and grievances. This policy is consistent with PPAP’s dedication to the highest possible standards of ethical, moral and legal 
business conduct with commitment to open communication. During the reporting year, 5 complaints from employees and 30 complaints 
from customers were received and all the concerns have been closed on timely basis. 
Links of the same are as follows: 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V5.pdf 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code-of_Fair_Disclosure.pdf
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/WHISTLE_BLOWER_POLICY-1_2.pdf 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
78
IV. Employees
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a. Employees (including differently abled):
Employees
S. No.
Particulars
Total
Male (%)
Female (%)
No.
% 
No.
% 
1
Permanent
1212
1193
98.43
19
1.57
2
Other than Permanent
980
827
84.39
153
15.61
3
Total
2192
2020
92.15
172
7.85
b. Differently abled Employees
Employees
S. No.
Particulars
Total
Male (%)
Female (%)
No.
% 
No.
% 
1
Permanent
-
-
-
-
-
2
Other than Permanent
-
-
-
-
-
3
Total differently abled employees
-
-
-
-
-
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women:
Total
No. and % of Females
No.
% 
Board of Directors
7
2
28.57
Key Management Personnel (KMP)
4
1
25.00
20. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22 
FY 2020-21 
 
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Permanent Employees
9%
2%
11%
10%
1%
 11%
15%
1%
16%
Other Than Permanent
19%
3%
22%
35%
2%
37%
29%
5%
34%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
81
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
10
Occupational 
Health & 
Safety
Risk
PPAP has a large number of employees working 
across all sites. As a result, safeguarding the 
safety of its employees is vital for the company’s 
continuous regulatory and social license to 
operate, particularly in regard to process-
related hazards. If the Company’s safety-
related procedures or performance are deemed 
inadequate, or if a safety incident occurs, it will 
have a negative impact on the health, well-
being, and morale of employees, as well as a 
bad reputational impact on the Company. It may 
also cause the Company to incur operational 
and financial losses, including the potential 
operational breakdown of the plant. 
We prioritize the health, safety, and 
overall well-being of our employees. We 
have a well-defined safety organization 
that 
focuses 
on 
implementing 
appropriate safety measures. Our EHS 
policy, objectives and SOPs are all 
aimed at making PPAP a very safe and 
healthy place to work. 
Negative
11
Customer 
Satisafction 
Risk
Inconsistent customer experience impacts the 
satisfaction and retention of existing customers, 
and the attraction of new customers
We 
conduct 
customer 
satisfaction 
surveys 
periodically 
and 
have 
a 
grievance 
redressal 
method 
to 
ensure timely resolution of customer 
complaints.
Negative
12
Community 
Development 
Opportunity
PPAP is committed towards the upliftment of the 
marginalized and economically weaker sections 
of the society through improving environment, 
education, health and hygiene.
Not Applicable
Positive
13
Compliance
Risk
We may face reputational damage, which could 
materially impact our brands and sales, if we 
fail to maintain the mandated environmental 
compliances.
We are subject to a continually evolving 
laws, regulations and policies that 
have an influence on our products and 
operations. Hence, Robust mechanism 
with real time compliance monitoring 
software for ensuring proactive and 
continual compliance evaluation has 
been implemented.
Positive
14
Data Privacy 
and Security
Risk
Data Privacy and Security breach could cause us 
significant business disruption, not only affecting 
our ability to deliver products to our customers 
but the personal safety of our customers and 
employees. Failure to meet the data protection 
obligations could result in enforcement action, 
fines, reputational and financial damage.
Since, we work in a highly automated 
environment and use cutting-edge 
technology to support a variety of 
operations. To mitigate information 
technology-related 
risks, 
we 
have 
implemented a governance framework, 
information security practices, and a 
business continuity plan.
Negative
15
Innovation 
and 
Technology
Opportunity
Our future success depends on our ability to 
stay attuned to evolving automotive trends in 
innovation and technology in order to satisfy 
changing customer demands in a timely manner 
and maintaining our product competitiveness and 
quality. 
Not Applicable
Positive
16
Economic 
Performance
Opportunity
Economic performance is critical to maintain 
stability and positive momentum. Delivering on 
our business and strategic objectives is the key to 
realising our planned future profitability and cash 
generation through return on our investments.
Not Applicable
Positive
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
80
24. Overview of PPAP’s high priority responsible business conduct issues.
PPAP’s key material issues identified in the materiality matrix are divided under Environment, Social and Governance (ESG). The 
materiality assessment process is in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework which is reviewed and approved by 
the PPAP’s steering committee. The identification of material issues was rated considering their importance and impact on business and 
stakeholders.
S. 
No. 
Material 
Issue 
identified
Risk or 
Opportunity 
(R/O)
Rationale for identifying the Risk or 
Opportunity
In case of risk, approach to adapt or 
mitigate
Positive/ 
Negative 
Implications
1
Energy & 
Emissions
Opportunity 
Being a responsible company, we are making 
continuous efforts into creating a value chain 
with a low carbon footprint, from planning and 
designing to purchasing and manufacturing.
Not Applicable
Positive
2
Energy 
efficiency of 
operations
Opportunity 
We are focusing on implementing an array of 
practices to reduce energy consumption and 
improve energy efficiency in our processes by 
using cutting-edge technology across all our 
facilities to reduce CO2 emissions.
Not Applicable
Positive
3
Material 
Management
Risk 
Supply chain disruptions, if not managed, could 
have an adverse effect on production volume, 
revenue, profitability, customer satisfaction and 
reputation.
An 
effective 
supply 
chain 
risk 
management 
framework 
enables 
early, 
proactive, 
engagement 
with 
our suppliers to identify and mitigate 
potential disruptions in supply of RM.
Negative
4
Water 
Management
Opportunity 
We typically optimize water use in our facilities 
through technological interventions. Keeping 
track of water usage using innovative technology 
and equipment effectively increases water saving. 
Not Applicable
Positive
5
Waste 
Management
Risk
Hazardous waste generated from high-end 
equipment to operate our facilities, require 
authorized treatment procedures.
The hazardous waste is sent for 
disposal to the treatment, storage, 
and disposal facility authorized by 
respective SPCB. Disposal of waste in 
compliance with operating permits and 
hazardous waste authorizations.
Negative
6
Supply Chain 
Management
Risk
We view suppliers as partners in our growth and 
view their position as being of utmost importance. 
Hence, the proper identification of an adequate 
supplier base aligning with our sustainability 
goals is crucial to our business demands.
New suppliers are screened, rated and 
assessed on the actual and prospective 
negative environmental and social 
repercussions. Relevant actions to 
prevent, reduce, or remediate the 
consequences are implemented. 
Negative
7
Talent 
Attraction & 
Retention
Risk
Retaining key talent is of vital importance in the 
manufacturing industry and higher turnover could 
lead to increased cost of rehiring and diminishing 
morale among the existing workforce.
One of the primary goals of our people 
strategy is to align employees with 
strategic business imperatives. We have 
also continually invested in the growth 
and development of our employees.
Negative
8
Employee 
Diversity
Opportunity
We believe that an inclusive work atmosphere 
motivates individuals to perform better, resulting 
in increased business success. 
Not Applicable
Positive
9
Labor 
Management 
Opportunity 
We are dedicated to ensuring a motivated, 
skilled and diverse staff capable of meeting 
our objectives by facilitating our employees' 
professional development in accordance with 
their goals and skills
Not Applicable
Positive
83
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Principle wise PPAP policies
1
Businesses should conduct and govern 
themselves with integrity in a manner that 
is ethical, transparent and Accountable.
The Board of Directors of PPAP have adopted a Code of Conduct & Ethics policy to 
elucidate the ethical behaviour, transparency and accountability in its business. These 
are set of regulations, policies, principles, and guidelines to help maintain a lawful, 
honest, and ethical environment throughout PPAP. The policies, rules and guidelines 
in the Code of Conduct & Ethics are applicable to all Directors and employees of PPAP.
2
Businesses should provide goods and 
services in a manner that is sustainable 
and safe
PPAP takes initiative to contribute to harmonious and sustainable development of 
society and earth through all business activities that it carries out in each region 
based on its guiding principles. PPAP remains focused on reducing resources in 
manufacturing of products with a sustainable life cycle through innovations to provide 
safe, comfortable and environment friendly products.
3
Businesses should respect and promote 
the well-being of all employees, including 
those in their value chains
PPAP has various policies to support employee well-being. Besides the Code of 
Conduct and ethics, other policies include the Whistle Blower policy, Supplier Code of 
Conduct, Quality & Environment Health and Safety policy, Comprehensive Employee 
Health Insurance policy, policy for Training & Development are in place to ensure the 
well-being of all employees. 
4
Businesses should respect the interests 
of and be responsive towards all its 
stakeholders
PPAP recognises employees, communities surrounding our operations, suppliers, 
customers, technology partner, auditors, Insurance companies, shareholders, 
investors, NGOs & other advocacy group and regulatory authorities as our key 
stakeholders and respect the interests of all its stakeholders. 
5
Businesses should respect and promote 
human rights
PPAP follows its policy on Human Rights which are embedded in the Code of 
Conduct and Ethics of PPAP. The Code of Conduct and Ethics extends to PPAP and 
its subsidiary Companies. PPAP is committed to the fundamental principles of human 
rights & labour rights, workplace free of harassment and prohibition of child and forced 
labour. PPAP does not discriminate against any person based on their gender, caste, 
religion, age (within statutory limits), marital status, nationality, ancestry, ethnicity, 
geographical origin, sexual orientation or disability.
6
Businesses should respect, protect, and 
make efforts to restore the environment
PPAP has a well-defined ‘Quality & Environment Health and Safety policy’ and 'Energy 
Policy’ which guides us to continually reduce our carbon footprint by conservation, 
reduction and energy optimization. PPAP plants are ISO 14001, 45001 and 50001 
certified. PPAP works continuously to reduce the waste and is focused on creating 
green infrastructure by installing various energy efficient technologies. The suppliers 
are also encouraged and educated to follow environment friendly processes and 
policies.
7
Businesses when engaging in influencing 
public and regulatory policy, should do 
so in a manner that is responsible and 
transparent
NA
8
Businesses should promote inclusive 
growth and equitable development
The Company considers social development as an important aspect of its operations. 
To oversee implementation of various initiatives, the Company has formed a Board 
level committee called CSR Committee. The Company has adopted a policy on 
Corporate Social Responsibility focusing on Environment, Education and Healthcare 
sectors to streamline its efforts towards Corporate Social Responsibility.
9
Businesses should engage with and 
provide value to their consumers in a 
responsible manner
PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct 
visibility for the end user. PPAP engages with its customers at various platforms 
to understand their expectations and has a well-defined system to measure 
customer satisfaction at regular intervals. Customer satisfaction are one of the most 
important factors of any business. PPAP constantly communicates / engages with 
all its customers at various platforms to understand their expectations. Customer 
Satisfaction trends are compiled, monitored and reviewed by top management on a 
periodic basis and action plans are discussed with customers.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
82
SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
Disclosure Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Ethics & 
Transparency
Product 
Responsibility
Human 
Resources
Responsiveness 
to Stakeholders
Respect 
for Human 
Rights
Environment 
Responsibility
Public 
Policy 
Advocacy
Inclusive 
Growth
Customer 
Engagement
Policy and management processes
1.a. Whether your entity’s 
policy/policies 
cover 
each 
principle 
and 
its 
core 
elements of the NGRBCs. 
(Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
b. 
Has 
the 
policy 
been 
approved by the Board? (Yes/
No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
c. Web Link of the Policies, if 
available
Some policies may also comprise a combination of internal PPAP policies that are available to all internal stakeholders and are 
available on PPAP’s website. https://www.ppapco.in/financials#codes_and_policies 
2. Whether the entity has 
translated the policy into 
procedures. (Yes / No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
3. Do the enlisted policies 
extend to your value chain 
partners? (Yes/No)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
NA
Y
Y
4. Name of the national 
and 
international 
codes/ 
c e r t i f i c a t i o n s / l a b e l s /  
standards adopted by your 
entity and mapped to each 
principle
Most of the policies are aligned to various standards such as IATF 16949 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001 (Environment 
Management System), ISO 45001 (Occupational Safety & Health Management System), ISO 50001 (Energy Management System), 
ISO/IEC 27001 (Information Security Management System), GRI Standards and BRSR Guidelines.
5. 
Specific 
commitments, 
goals and targets set by the 
entity with defined timelines, 
if any.
PPAP sustainability approach for FY23 includes: 
1.  Betterment of the local community in which we operate and the upliftment of the marginalised section of our society by providing 
education through Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation.
2. Endeavour to preserve water, clean air and ensure responsible management of hazardous & non-hazardous waste.
3. We aim to achieve 45% CO2 reduction by 2030 and net zero by 2050.
4. Increase the share of renewable energy, maximize energy efficiency and offset carbon.
5. Commitment to improve gender diversity by increasing the percentage of women workforce to at least 10% on shopfloor.
6. 
Performance 
of 
the 
entity against the specific 
commitments, 
goals, 
and 
targets along-with reasons in 
case the same are not met.
PPAP strongly believes that sustainability is a journey and is constantly working on it.
Governance, leadership, and oversight
7. 
Statement 
by 
director 
responsible for the business 
responsibility 
report, 
highlighting 
ESG 
related 
challenges, 
targets, 
and 
achievements.
Please refer to ‘Message from Chairman & Managing Director’ section of the Sustainability Report FY 22-23.
8. Details of the highest 
authority 
responsible 
for 
implementation and oversight 
of the Business Responsibility 
policy(s).
Mr. Abhishek Jain, Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
9. Does the entity have a 
specified Committee of the 
Board/ Director responsible 
for 
decision 
making 
on 
sustainability related issues? 
(Yes / No). If yes, provide 
details.
Yes, PPAP’s sustainability initiatives inter alia plantation, education etc are monitored by corporate social responsibility committee 
and Board at periodic intervals.
85
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
2. 
 Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings with regulators/ 
law enforcement agencies imposed on your company by regulatory/ judicial institutions in the financial year:
Monetary
 
NGRBC Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Amount (In INR)
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No) 
Penalty/ Fine
Nil
Settlement
Compounding fee
Non-Monetary
 
NGRBC Principle
Name of the 
regulatory/ 
enforcement 
agencies/ judicial 
institutions
Brief of the Case
Has an appeal 
been preferred? 
(Yes/No) 
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
3. 
 Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-
monetary action has been appealed 
Not Applicable.
4. 
 Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-
link to the policy.
 
 Yes. anti-bribery and anti-corruption are covered in PPAP’s code of conduct and ethics. The policy reiterates PPAP’s zero-tolerance 
approach to bribery and corruption. The policy makes ethical decision-making easier and reinforces PPAP’s culture of transparency 
in all its business relationships. This policy applies to all stakeholders or persons associated with PPAP or acting on behalf of PPAP.
 
Link is as follows: https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V5.pdf 
5. 
 Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency 
for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
 
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directors
Nil
Nil
KMPs
Employees
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR.
6. 
Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Number
Remarks
Number
Remarks
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict 
of Interest of the Directors 
Nil
Nil
Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict 
of Interest of the KMPs 
7. 
 Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by regulators/ 
law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.  
Not Applicable.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
84
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by 
PPAP:
Whether review was undertaken by Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other 
Committee
Subject for Review
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Performance against above policies 
and follow up action
The policies of PPAP are reviewed on need or periodic basis by the Committees of Board 
or Board of directors of PPAP.
Compliance with statutory requirements 
of relevance to the principles, and 
rectification of any non-compliances
PPAP is in compliance with the extant regulations as applicable. 
Frequency 
(Annually, 
Half 
Yearly, 
Quarterly, Any other)
The Top Management quarterly reviews progress and set directions for promoting policies 
across PPAP. The action points that emerge from the discussions at these meetings are 
recorded, implemented wherever necessary and reviewed in the subsequent meetings. 
11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/
No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
Policies are reviewed internally and external assistance is availed whenever required.
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e., not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
Questions
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5
P6
P7
P8
P9
The entity does not consider the principles material to its business (Yes/No)
NA
The entity is not at a stage where it is able to formulate and implement the 
policies on specified principles (Yes/No)
The entity does not have the financial or/human and technical resources 
available for the task (Yes/No)
It is planned to be done in the next financial year (Yes/No)
SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE
PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity 
in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1. 
Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year:
Segment
Total number of training 
& awareness programs 
held
Topics /principles covered under the training and its impact
% Coverage 
by 
awareness 
programmes
Board 
of 
Directors
2
PPAP shares business presentations periodically at the meetings of the 
board of directors and the committees to inform the directors about the 
strategy, operations, and functions of PPAP. At various board meetings, 
presentations are also made on safety, health and environment, risk 
management, PPAP policies, and changes in regulatory environment.
100%
Key 
Managerial 
Personnel
2
100%
Employees 
other than 
BOD 
and 
KMPs
2019
PPAP’s basic policy for training and development is the cultivation of “Teach 
and be Taught”. Trainings are based on 70-20-10 principle i.e., 10% of the 
time of trainee goes in classroom, 20% learning is supported by the coach 
and 70% action on projects which enable an employee to complete the 
learning cycle and understand the processes in depth.
100%
87
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) 
or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
N I C 
Code
Name of Product /
Service
% of total 
Turnover 
contributed
Boundary for which the 
Life Cycle Perspective / 
Assessment was conducted
Whether conducted by 
independent external 
agency (Yes/No)
Results communicated 
in public domain 
(Yes/No)
34300
Manufacture of parts 
and accessories for 
motor vehicles
100%
Cradle to Gate
No
No
PPAP is IATF-16949, ISO-14001, ISO-45001, ISO-50001 certified and PPAP is following all these standards while producing its products.
2. 
 If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your 
products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective /Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly 
describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same.
 
 No Life Cycle Assessment was done as customer is having authority to conduct this. However, significant social and environmental 
risks have been already identified during the production. The Company regularly reviews its environmental risks and undertakes 
initiatives to mitigate them as per the ISO 14001 standard.
3. 
 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) 
or providing services (for service industry).
Indicate input material
Recycled or re-used input material to total material
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Plastics 
1.51%
3%
4. 
 Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonne) reused, recycled, and safely 
disposed, as per the following format:
 
 No product and packaging material reclaimed at end of life of products, as PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers 
(OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user.
5. 
Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category. 
 
Not Applicable
Principle 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, 
including those in their value chains
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
86
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year:
Total number of awareness 
programmes held
Topics 
/ 
principles 
covered 
under the training
% of value chain partners covered (by value of business done 
with such partners) under the awareness programmes
1
Sustainability Training
54%
1
Supplier Conference
4%
2. 
Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No)
 
 Yes, PPAP has procedures in place to avoid/manage conflict of interest involving members of the Board and the same has been 
embedded in the code of conduct & ethics policy and related party transactions policy as follows: 
 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V5.pdf; 
 
https://www.ppapco.in/assets/pdf/policies/Related_Party_Transactions_Policy1.pdf
Principle 2: Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is 
sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and 
social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively:
 
2022-23 
2021-22 
Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts
R&D
83.5%
83.5%
Reduction in RM consumption by material weight and design
Capex
0
0
Nil
2. 
a. 
Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing? (Yes/No): 
 
 
 Yes, PPAP has procedures in place for sustainable sourcing. At PPAP, we work with our suppliers so that the environmental 
and social impacts can be prevented or mitigated at the stage of structuring contracts or other agreements, as well as, through 
ongoing collaborations with suppliers. PPAP’s suppliers are assessed for a range of environmental and social criteria, including 
human rights (such as child labour and forced or compulsory labour), employment practices, health and safety practices, 
industrial relations, incidents (such as abuse, coercion, or harassment), wages and compensation, and working hours. PPAP 
has a quality, environment, health and safety policy and encourages its suppliers to ensure compliance with these policies. It 
covers various issues like safety measures, SOC, POP substance declaration under PPAP’s supplier manual including policy for 
responsible sourcing of raw material. PPAP has assessed 83% of its new suppliers in FY 2022-23 as per PPAP’s environment 
and social criteria.
3. 
 Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of life, for 
(a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
 
 We monitor material consumption, minimize waste, and use more recycled materials to optimize our resource management. The 
circularized packaging materials are the number of bins & trolleys at the plant level that is returned from the customer, eliminating 
the need for extra packing material. The same bins will be reused until the end of their life cycle. For e-waste disposal, PPAP works 
with authorized e-waste handlers and approximately 0.83 tonne of e-waste was generated and recycled by authorized recyclers. 
4. 
 Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste 
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If 
not, provide steps taken to address the same. 
Not Applicable. 
89
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
6. 
 Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and worker? If 
yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
 
Yes/No (If yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief)
Permanent Employees
Yes (Monthly Town Hall Meeting, Help Desk)
Other than Permanent Employees
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
7. 
Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity: 
 
 There are no employee associations at PPAP. PPAP, however, acknowledges and respects the right to freedom of association and 
does not oppose collective bargaining and follows all local laws for representation of labour.
8. 
Details of training given to employees and workers:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total
On health and 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill upgradation
Total
On health and 
safety/wellness 
measures
On skill upgradation
(A) 
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (C)
% (C/A)
(A) 
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No.(C)
% (C/A)
Permanent & Other than Permanent Employees
Male
2020
2020
100%
2020
100%
1615
1615
100%
1615
100%
Female
172
172
100%
172
100%
65
65
100%
65
100%
Total
2192
2192
100%
2192
100%
1680
1680
100%
1680
100%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
9. 
Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Total (A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
Permanent & Other than Permanent employees
Male
2020
2020
100%
1615
1615
100%
Female
172
172
100%
65
65
100%
Total
2192
2192
100%
1680
1680
100%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
10. a. 
 Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, 
the coverage such system?
 
 
 Yes, PPAP is ISO 45001 (Occupational Safety & Health Management System) certified. Extract from the Company’s “Quality 
Environment Health & Safety (QEHS) Policy” are displayed at the manufacturing plants in English as well as in regional 
languages. The Company has also developed visitor safety security procedure and entry regulation at factory with safety 
communication to ensure the same at all levels. PPAP covers 100% of its employees under the Occupational Safety & Health 
Management System.
 
b. 
 What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by 
the entity?
 
 
 Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) is the main focal area for PPAP since it is committed to providing a safe, secure, and 
healthy workplace for its employees. The company has a well-defined safety team that is in charge of conducting all safety, 
electrical and fire audits, risk assessments, safety meetings, and implementing necessary safety measures on identified unsafe 
conditions and acts (Hiyari Hatto Points) in order to prevent any near-miss or accidents. The safety team periodically conducts 
numerous training sessions for the employees to increase awareness regarding the work-related hazards. PPAP ensures that 
all the safety standards and guidelines are complied with.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
88
Essential Indicators
1. 
a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
% of employees covered by
Category
Total 
Health insurance
Accident insurance
Maternity benefits
Paternity Benefits
Day Care facilities
No.
% 
No.
% 
No.
% 
No.
% 
No.
% 
Permanent Employee
a. Male
1193
213
17.85%
1193
100%
NA
NA
NA
b. Female
19
2
10.53%
19
100%
19
100%
c. Total
1212
215
17.74%
1212
100%
19
100%
Other than Permanent employees
a. Male
827
827
100%
827
100%
NA
NA
NA
b. Female
153
153
100%
153
100%
153
15%
c. Total
980
980
100%
980
100%
153
15.61%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
 
 Employees have always been an asset of PPAP. PPAP endeavours to establish long-term relationships with its employees by 
providing an atmosphere that is motivating and enjoyable to work in, with the goal of moving toward a high-performance socio-
economic work culture at all levels.
2. 
Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year.
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Benefits
No. of employees covered 
as a % of total employees
Deducted and deposited 
with the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
No. of employees covered 
as a % of total employees
Deducted and deposited 
with the authority 
(Y/N/N.A.)
PF
100%
Yes
100%
As per Act
Gratuity
100% (As per Act)
Yes
100% (As per Act)
As per Act
ESI
100% (As per Act)
Yes
100% (As per Act)
As per Act
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
3. 
Accessibility of workplaces
 
 Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of 
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
 
 Currently, there is no facility available at the plant. However, PPAP is working towards making its plants accessible to differently abled 
people.
4. 
 Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a 
web-link to the policy.
 
 Equal opportunity policy is combined in PPAP’s code of conduct & ethics policy, link for the same is available: https://www.ppapco.
in/assets/pdf/policies/Code_of_conduct_and_Ethics-_V5.pdf
5. 
Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave.
Gender
Permanent employees
Other than Permanent employees
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Return to work rate
Retention rate
Male
0
0
0
0
Female
100%
0
0
0
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
91
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
15.  Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant 
risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
 
 No significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees (Y/N) (B) 
Workers (Y/N)? 
No
2. 
 Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the 
value chain partners.
 
 PPAP ensures that the statutory dues are deducted and remitted in conformity with regulations for transactions. Complinity software 
is also implemented for adherence of Legal compliance and dues. The internal and statutory audits review this activity as well. PPAP 
expects its value chain partners to adhere to employee well-being and uphold the values of Supplier’s code of conduct & ethics.
3. 
 Provide the number of employees/workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health / fatalities (as 
reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose 
family members have been placed in suitable employment:
Employees
Total no. of affected employees
No. of employees that are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment 
or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Nil
 
 Given the nature of operations, safety has always been an important aspect of PPAP’s working culture and it has been the Company’s 
constant endeavour to extend this safety culture among all its employees. Regular health monitoring and check-ups by external 
hospitals conducted as a measure of identification of any work-related ill-health. At PPAP, health & safety are a part of the company’s 
guiding principles on employees’ well-being.
4. 
 Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career 
endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
 
Yes, PPAP provides transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability through retainership & advisory engagement. 
5. 
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices
61%
Working conditions
6. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments 
of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
 
 No significant risks/concerns observed from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain 
partners. However, action plan is prepared in case of any non-conformity observed during the assessment.
Principle 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its 
stakeholders
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
90
 
c. 
 Whether you have processes for employees/workers to report the work-related hazards and to remove themselves 
from such risks. (Yes/No)
 
 
 Yes, all the work-related hazards reported by employees is listed and a dedicated team under the safety officer is assigned to 
analyse and implement the counter measures to close all work-related hazards and are communicated in DWM (Daily work 
management), Safety committee meeting and townhall meeting.
 
d. 
Do the employees/workers of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/ No)
 
 
 Yes, PPAP believes in creating a safe working environment for all its employees by having tie up with hospitals for employees 
and their families. 
11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format:
Safety Incident/Number
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked)
Employees
-
-
Total recordable work-related injuries
10
4
No. of fatalities
-
-
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities)
-
-
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
 
 PPAP emphasizes the importance of providing a safe and healthy workplace for all its employees and third-party contractors. 
PPAP regularly evaluates its workplace health, safety, and environmental performance. Along with that, following measures are 
continuously monitored and implemented across all units: 
 
• 
Assurance of machine safety by installing safety devices during the design phase of machine manufacturing. 
 
• 
EHS mobile app for reporting unsafe acts and unsafe conditions on digital platforms.
 
• 
PPAP has done the Hazard identification and Risk assessment (HIRA) of all the activities inside the premises. 
 
• 
Training provided on the work-related activities as per weekly and monthly basis. 
 
• 
SOP and OCP’s are prepared and followed for the all the routine and non-routine activities.
 
• 
Daily KYT (Kiken yochi training or hazard prediction activity) is conducted to raise awareness among employees.
 
• 
For improvement of OHS conditions at workstations KAIZENS (continuous improvements) done
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
Year 
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed during the 
year
Pending resolution 
at the end of the 
year
Remarks
Filed during the 
year
Pending resolution 
at the end of the 
year
Remarks
Health and safety 
practices
2
0
Resolved
-
-
NIL
Working Conditions
3
0
Resolved
-
-
NIL
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
14. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices
100%
Working Conditions
100%
 
 All units of PPAP are assessed against ISO 45001:2018 standard. PPAP complies with all the health and safety related laws and 
rules. 
93
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
2. 
 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social 
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were 
incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
 
 Yes, PPAP uses stakeholder consultation while deciding the sustainability materiality matrix. Materiality matrix is established by the 
steering committee of PPAP based on interaction of steering committee members with different stakeholders. PPAP believes that 
the stakeholder engagement process serves as a tool for understanding the reasonable expectations and interests of stakeholders 
and their information needs. Improvement in gender diversity was taken as one of the material topics in consultation with Board of 
directors. 
3. 
 Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized 
stakeholder group.
 
 PPAP recognizes its responsibility and identifies underprivileged communities around its business locations as disadvantaged, 
vulnerable, and marginalized stakeholders, and engages with all such stakeholders and thrives to constantly contribute towards 
the betterment of the local community in which it operates and the upliftment of the vulnerable/marginalised section of our society, 
through “Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation”, a registered trust for focused implementation of CSR activities of the Company majorly in 
the field of environment, education, and Healthcare (CSR Policy available on website).
 
 Environment: The foundation has undertaken several plantation projects in Tughlaqabad Biodiversity Park and development of a 
Nursery near Dera Mandi. This initiative led to employment generation of 15 beneficiaries. 
 
 Education: PPAP has sponsored School Uniforms, Books, Tuition Fees, Bus Fees for children from underprivileged sections of 
society at Village Salarpur and Bhangel, Noida and has aided education of 60 students.
 
 Healthcare: 50 beneficiaries impacted through donation to Akshaya Patra Foundation and through health check-up camps, ration 
distribution.
Principle 5: Businesses should respect and promote human rights
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(s) of the entity, in the following 
format:
Category
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total
No.
% 
Total
No.
% 
Employees
Permanent
1212
635
52.39%
1027
1027
100%
Other than permanent
980
597
60.92%
653
653
100%
Total Employees
2192
1232
56.20%
1680
1680
100%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
92
Essential Indicators
1. 
 Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
 
 PPAP has identified its stakeholders as entities or individuals that can reasonably be expected to be significantly affected by the 
organisation’s activities, products, or services. Stakeholders are also those whose actions can reasonably be expected to affect the 
ability of the organisation to implement its strategies or achieve its objectives. 
 
 PPAP believes that the stakeholder engagement process serves as a tool for understanding the reasonable expectations and 
interests of stakeholders and their information needs. 
2. 
List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
Stakeholder 
Group
Whether 
identified as 
Vulnerable & 
Marginalized 
Group (Yes/No)
Channels of communication 
Frequency 
Purpose & Scope of Engagement including 
key topics and concerns raised during such 
engagement
Investors
No
AGM, Investor conferences, press 
releases and newsletters, Updates 
on website of the Company
Quarterly
Growth of the Company, Reward to 
shareholders, ROCE, Governance and risk 
management
Suppliers
Yes
Suppliers / Vendors meet via 
Networking & Exhibition Suppliers 
feedback and periodic site visits
Need based, Monthly, 
Quarterly
Payment terms, Growth of suppliers, Fair & 
transparent dealing, Logistics
Employees
No
Town hall/ Suggestions/ DWM 
meetings Award and Annual 
functions
Monthly, Quarterly
Growth opportunities, Safe working 
environment, Hygiene & sanitation, Talent 
attraction, retention, Training & development
Community
Yes
Community meetings and visits, 
Interaction with local bodies
Need based, Monthly, 
Quarterly
Livelihood support & Local employment, 
Healthcare facilities, Education, Air and water 
pollution
Customers
Yes
Customer satisfaction surveys, Direct 
customer relationship satisfaction 
initiatives
Need based, Monthly, 
Quarterly
Product quality and delivery, Health and safety 
aspects, Innovation
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social 
topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
 
 Economic, environment and social topics are discussed in the Board meeting. The consultation with stakeholders delegated to 
corporate governance and other concerned functions where they engage with stakeholders, take their feedback and communicate 
to management and board about the activity of engagement and feedback received. 
95
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
7. 
Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
 
 PPAP views all incidents of discrimination and harassment cases, very seriously and encourages employees to report any incidents 
of harassment to the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) formed under Policy of Prevention of Sexual Harassment at the workplace 
of the Company (“POSH Policy”). Any aggrieved individual may make, in writing, a complaint of Sexual Harassment at the workplace 
to the Committee giving details of the harassment. 
8. 
Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
 
 Yes, PPAP follows its policy on Human Rights which are embedded in the Code of Conduct and Ethics of the Company. The Code 
of Conduct and Ethics extends to the Company and its subsidiary Companies. The Company is committed to the fundamental 
principles of human rights & labour rights, workplace free of harassment and prohibition of child labour. The Company sets a 
standard of ‘zero tolerance’ for any kind of discrimination or harassment, extend to value chain partners as per the contracts during 
supplier manual agreement.
9. 
Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Sexual Harassment
-
Discrimination at workplace
-
Child Labour
-
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
-
Wages
-
Other human rights related issues
-
10.  Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 9 above.
 
No significant risk was observed in this reporting period.
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Details of a business process being modified / introduced because of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
 
No human right grievance/complaint received during the reporting period.
2. 
Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due diligence conducted.
 
No human rights due diligence conducted during the reporting period.
3. 
 Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons 
with Disabilities Act, 2016?
 
 Currently, there is no facility available at the plant. However, PPAP is working towards making its workplace accessible to differently 
abled people.
4. 
Details on assessment of value chain partners:
% of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Sexual Harassment
61%
Discrimination at workplace
61%
Child Labour
61%
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
61%
Wages
61%
Other
61%
 
Based upon self-assessment by value chain partners as a part of supplier manual agreement.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
94
2. 
Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers, in the following format:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than Minimum 
Wage
Total
Equal to 
Minimum Wage
More than Minimum 
Wage
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
(A)
No. (B)
% (B/A)
 No. (B)
% (B/A)
Employees
Permanent
1212
NA
1212
100%
1027
NA
1027
100%
Male
1193
1193
100%
1021
1021
100%
Female
19
19
100%
6
6
100%
Other than Permanent
980
980
100%
653
653
100%
Male
827
827
100%
594
594
100%
Female
153
153
100%
59
59
100%
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
3. 
Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
Segments
Male
Female
Number
Average
Number
Average
remuneration/ salary/ wages
remuneration/ salary/ wages
Board of Directors
5
47
2
3
Key Managerial Personnel
3
4
1
1
Employees other than BOD and KMP
1158
32505
14
34344
*PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
4. 
 Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or 
contributed to by the business? (Yes/No)
 
 Yes, PPAP has instituted an Internal Complaints (IC) Committee for redressal of human rights issue and for ensuring time-bound 
treatment of such complaints.
5. 
Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
 
 PPAP is committed to the highest standards of ethical, moral, and legal business conduct. PPAP’s dedication to human rights and 
fair treatment is outlined in its code of conduct and ethics policy. The Company is committed to the fundamental principles of human 
rights & labour rights, workplace free of harassment and prohibition of child labour. The Company sets a standard of ‘zero tolerance’ 
for any kind of violation of human rights.
6. 
Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Filed during 
the year
Pending 
resolution 
at the end of 
year
Remarks
Sexual Harassment
-
-
NA
-
-
NA
Discrimination at workplace
-
-
NA
-
-
NA
Child Labour
-
-
NA
-
-
NA
Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour
-
-
NA
-
-
NA
Wages
-
-
NA
-
-
NA
Other human rights related issues
-
-
NA
-
-
NA
Note: PPAP does not have any workers as defined in the guidance note on BRSR. 
97
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
6. 
Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total Scope 1 emissions
Metric tonnes of CO2 
equivalent
492.43
423
Total Scope 2 emissions
11911.66
9423
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per crore of turnover
28.14
24
Note: Independent assurance has been carried out by DQS India [Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited].
7. 
Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If yes, then provide details.
 
Yes, reduction of resources forms an integral part of PPAP’s continuous focus on reducing its carbon footprint on the environment. 
 
• 
 Installation of energy efficient lighting system and implementation of energy saving kaizens in the existing machineries has 
helped us achieve the potential of annual energy saving of 1679.94 GJ and reduction of 377.99 tonnes of CO2 emissions. We 
periodically hold awareness training across all our business units to spread energy-saving habits among our staff. 
 
• 
Localisation of our raw materials has further led us to save 43.45 tonnes of CO2 emissions. 
 
• 
Waste saving initiative has led us to save 0.22 tonnes of CO2 emissions.
8. 
Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total Waste generated (in metric tonnes)
Plastic waste (A)
1060.53
815
E-waste (B)
0.83
1.01
Bio-medical waste (C)
-
-
Construction and demolition waste (D)
-
-
Battery waste (E)
-
-
Radioactive waste (F)
-
-
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G)
5.53
4.4
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any.
318.74
304
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G+ H)
1385.63
1124
For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations (in 
metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Recycled
208.42
1033
(ii) Re-used
-
0.2
(iii) Other recovery operations
-
-
Total
208.42
1033.2
For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes)
Category of waste
(i) Incineration
1.51
1.87
(ii) Landfilling
-
0.05
(iii) Other disposal operations
-
Total
1.51
1.92
Note: Independent assurance has been carried out by DQS India [Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited].
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
96
5. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/ concerns arising from the 
assessments at Question 4 above.
 
No significant risks/concerns observed in the self-assessment taken by suppliers.
Principle 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the 
environment
Essential Indicators
1. 
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Total electricity consumption (A)- Giga Joules
52941
42981
Total fuel consumption (B)-Giga Joules
7725
6757
Energy consumption through other sources (C)-Giga Joules
3268
2072
Total energy consumption (A+B+C)- Giga Joules
63934
51810
Energy intensity per crore of turnover -Giga Joules/Cr. of Sales
145.02
128
Note: Independent assurance has been carried out by DQS India [Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited].
2. 
 Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and 
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been 
achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any. 
 
No designated consumers entity in PPAP.
3. 
Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) 
Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
35436.31
31896
(iii) Third party water
14108
12286
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v)
49544.31
44182
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
49544.31
44182
Water intensity per crore of turnover (Water consumed/ turnover)
112.39
109
Note: Independent assurance has been carried out by DQS India [Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited].
4. 
 Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and 
implementation.
 
 Yes, PPAP has implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge. The wastewater generated from cooling towers was previously 
drained out in municipal drains, it is currently being stored in underground storage tanks and then used for horticulture. The 
wastewater is recycled in-house and reused for various purposes including (but not limited to) the following: 
 
• 
Water is being reused from the cooling extrusion for the greenbelt development and horticulture.
 
• 
Numerous water saving initiatives led to 11132 KL of water saving in the reporting period.
 
• 
Rainwater harvesting tanks are installed to recharge the groundwater.
5. 
Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter
Unit
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
NOx
Kg
427.39
689
SOx
-
-
-
Particulate matter (PM)
Kg
67.59
45
Persistent organic pollutants (POP)
-
-
-
Volatile organic compounds (VOC)
-
-
-
Hazardous air pollutants (HAP)
-
-
-
CO
Kg
203.11
523
Note: Independent assurance has been carried out by DQS India [Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited].
99
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
3. 
Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres):
 
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
 
(i) 
 Name of the area: Noida & Greater Noida (Uttar Pradesh), Pathredi (Rajasthan),Vallam Vadagal (Tamil Nadu), Viramgam 
(Gujarat)
 
(ii) Nature of operations: Manufacturing of Automotive sealing parts (Extrusion, Injection Moulding, Assembly).
 
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format:
Parameter
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Water withdrawal by source (in kilolitres)
(i) Surface water
-
-
(ii) Groundwater
35436.31
31896
(iii) Third party water
14108
12286
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water
-
-
(v) Others
-
-
Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres)
49544.31
44182
Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres)
49544.31
44182
Water intensity per crore of turnover (Water consumed / turnover)
112.39
109
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity
NA
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kilolitres)
(i) Into Surface water
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(ii) Into Groundwater
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iii) Into Seawater
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(iv) Sent to third parties
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
(v) Others
- No treatment
- With treatment – please specify level of treatment
Note: Independent assurance has been carried out by DQS India [Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited].
4. 
Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format:
 
 Currently, PPAP is only mapping its Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions & its intensity. However, in future, PPAP will consider the 
mapping of its Scope 3 emissions.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
98
9. 
 Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your 
company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to 
manage such wastes.
 
 PPAP recognizes that the natural resources are finite and therefore need to be conserved and recycled. In the endeavour to achieve 
the same it continues to evaluate opportunities for technology upgradation, improved processes for waste reduction. PPAP always 
focuses on 5R concept (Refrain, Reform, Reduce, Reuse and Re-cycle). PPAP has installed the bio-composter for canteen waste 
and recycle the food waste produced by PPAP. PPAP is using reclaimed packaging materials in the form of bins that will return from 
the customer, eliminating the need for single use packaging. The same bins will be reused until the end of their life cycle.
 
 PPAP follows the international standard of materials as per IMDS and verify the SOC/ POP free material to protect against any 
toxicity.
10.  If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, 
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals 
/ clearances are required, please specify details in the following format: 
Not Applicable.
11.  Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current 
financial year: 
Not Applicable.
12.  Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India, such as the Water (Prevention 
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder 
(Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format:
 
 Yes, PPAP gives highest priority to ensure environment-friendly practices, having all valid consent to operate (Air & Water), 
Hazardous waste authorization by concerned pollution control boards, ensuring compliance with applicable environmental laws, 
rules, regulations, and guidelines. 
Leadership Indicators
1. 
 Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Giga Joules) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the 
following format:
Parameter 
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
From renewable sources (Solar Power)
Total electricity consumption (A)
3268
2072
Total fuel consumption (B)
-
-
Energy consumption through other sources (C)
-
-
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C)
3268
2072
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D)
52941
42981
Total fuel consumption (E)
7725
6757
Energy consumption through other sources (F)
-
-
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F)
60666
49738
Note: Independent assurance has been carried out by DQS India [Deutsch Quality Systems (India) Private Limited].
2. 
Provide the following details related to water discharged:
 
 Yes, PPAP has implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge. The wastewater generated from cooling towers was previously 
drained out in municipal drains, it is currently being stored in underground storage tanks and then used for horticulture. 
101
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Essential Indicators
1. 
a. 
Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations. 
 
 
PPAP is a member of 7 business associations.
 
b. 
 List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations you are a member of/are affiliated to, on the basis of no. of 
members.
S. No.
Name of the trade and industry chambers/ associations
Reach 
of 
trade 
and 
industry 
chambers/ 
associations (State/National)
1
Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA) 
National 
2
Bhiwadi Manufacturers Association (BMA)
State 
3
Confederation of Indian Industries (CII)
National 
4
HCI Supplier's Club Society
National 
5
Maruti Suzuki Suppliers Welfare Association (MSSWA)
National 
6
Tools and Gauge Manufacturers Association of India (TAGMA)
National 
7
Toyota Kirloskar Suppliers Association (TKSA)
National 
2. 
 Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the entity, 
based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
 
Not Applicable
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity.
 
PPAP is currently not engaged in public advocacy.
Principle 8: Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1. 
Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) undertaken by PPAP for projects in the current Financial Year.
 
SIA activity has not been started yet, however, PPAP has been planning to undertake the SIA in the upcoming years.
2. 
 Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your 
entity, in the following format: Nil
3. 
Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
 
Register of grievances is kept and maintained to receive and redress grievances of the community.  
4. 
Percentage of input material [inputs to total inputs by value (in Cr.)] sourced from suppliers:
 
 PPAP undertakes initiatives to build capacities of the suppliers. PPAP supports the MSMEs in nearby locations of its plants for raw 
material sourcing/packaging/ consumable etc. The supply chain team of PPAP periodically visits the facilities of the vendors for their 
continuous upgradation and suggest them improvement points.
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Directly sourced from MSMEs/ small producers
15%
11%
Sourced directly from within the district and neighbouring districts
92%
92%
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
100
5. 
 With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details 
of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation 
activities.
 
Not Applicable.
6. 
 If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource 
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as 
well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
S. No.
Initiative undertaken
Details of the initiative
Outcome of the initiative
FY 2022-23
1.
Energy Conservation Initiatives
Various energy efficient technology has 
been installed inside the ma-chines.
466650.48 kWh annual energy saving and 
reduction of 377.99 tCO2 emis-sions
2.
Water saving Initiatives
Installation of water efficient technology and 
water saving taps
11132 kL water saved
3.
Waste Management Initiatives
Installation of PADCARE bins for safe 
disposal of sanitary napkins
0.82 kg material processed out of the 41 
pads collected and 0.217 tCO2 emission 
reduction
4
Supply Chain Initiatives
Localisation of raw material
Annual reduction of 43.45 tCO2 equiva-lent 
to 1316 no. of trees to neutralize the same 
reduction in the environment.
7. 
Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
 
 Yes, PPAP has a well-defined risk, business continuity and disaster management plan. The plan outlines all the contingencies 
along with the overall governance and monitoring of the business continuity function. Business continuity spans resources, people, 
processes and technology. Requisite training programmes have been conducted for the teams to be prepared to respond in a 
crisis. Availability of emergency supplies ensured by respective entity in planned way and exercised time to time to check their 
preparedness. Most of the business functions are supported through automation with the help of technology.
8. 
 Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or 
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard?
 
No significant adverse impact has been observed to the environment, arising from the value chain.
 
Ensure counter measure through periodical self-assessment by suppliers.
9. 
 Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental 
impacts.
 
61% suppliers assessed. 
Principle 7: Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, 
should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent
103
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Essential Indicators
1. 
Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
 
 PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. However, PPAP has a 
customer complaint handling system based on IATF16949:2016 and business policy of each customer. PPAP provides immediate 
containment action and awareness training to all concerned team members to stop out flow of suspected material to the customers. 
Detailed countermeasure with simulation and 4M/why-why analysis is shared with customer within two weeks from the date of 
complaint received. After receiving effectiveness confirmation of action, PPAP does the horizontal deployment of the action taken 
wherever possible and standardize the standard operating procedure and related documents. No customer complaints are pending 
at the end of financial year.
2. 
Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
Product/Services
As a % to total turnover
Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product
NA
Safe and responsible usage
Recycling and safe disposal
Note: PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user.
3. 
Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY 2022-23
FY 2021-22
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Received 
during the year
Pending 
resolution at 
end of year
Remarks
Data privacy
Nil
Advertising
Delivery of essential services
Restrictive Trade Practices
Unfair Trade Practices
Note: PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user.
4. 
Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
 
Number
Reasons for recall
Voluntary recalls
-
NA
Forced recalls
-
NA
5. 
 Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide 
a web-link of the policy.
 
 Yes, PPAP has policy for cyber security and certified ISO 27001: 2013. Web-link of the policy is as follows: https://www.ppapco.in/
assets/pdf/policies/Privacy_policy.pdf
6. 
 Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential 
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action 
taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
 
 During the reporting period, there was no observance of any issue related to cyber security, data privacy and safety of products and 
services.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
102
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments.
 
Not Applicable.
2. 
 Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as 
identified by government bodies: 
Nil 
3. 
a) 
 Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising 
marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No)
 
 
No
 
b) 
From which marginalized/vulnerable groups do you procure?
 
 
 PPAP supports the MSMEs and small suppliers in nearby locations of its plants for raw material sourcing/packaging/ consumable 
etc.
 
(c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
 
 
During the reporting period, it constituted around 15% of the total procurement (in sales).
4. 
 Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current 
financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
 
Not Applicable.
5. 
Details of corrective actions taken in intellectual property related cases wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved:
 
Not Applicable.
6. 
Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects: 
 
 PPAP recognizes its responsibility and identifies underprivileged communities around its business locations as disadvantaged, 
vulnerable, and marginalized stakeholders, and engages with all such stakeholders and thrives to constantly contribute towards the 
betterment of the local community in which it operates. 
 
125 no. of beneficiaries impacted during the reporting period:
 
• 
 Environment (15 beneficiaries through employment for plantation activities at Dera Mandi Nursery and Tuqhlaqabad Biodiversity 
Park)
 
• 
Education (60 beneficiaries through fees, uniform and books donated)
 
• 
Healthcare (50 beneficiaries through health check-up camps, ration distribution).
Principle 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in 
a responsible manner
105
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
World Economic Overview:
The global economy is currently experiencing slow growth as it 
recovers from the setbacks caused by the Covid-19 pandemic 
and the war between Russia and Ukraine. The supply chain 
disruptions are gradually easing. The energy and food markets 
that were previously disrupted by the war are also stabilising. 
In addition, central banks across the world are tightening the 
monetary policies in order to bring inflation closer to target levels.
According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), global growth 
was estimated to slow from 3.4% in CY2022 to 2.9% in CY2023. 
Inflation rates are expected to ease, albeit at a slower pace than 
initially anticipated, declining from 8.7% in CY2022 to 7.0% in 
CY2023 and further to 4.9% in CY2024.
Indian Economic Overview:
India witnessed a 6.8% growth in FY23 which is significantly 
above the global average growth rate. The projected growth 
rate for FY24 is 6.1% which is healthy despite the slowdown in 
world economy. India’s strong growth is driven by factors such 
as digitisation, prudent fiscal policy, push for infrastructure 
development, stabilising commodity prices and resilient supply 
chain. The Repo Rate has increased from 4.4% in May 2022 to 
6.5% in April 2023 signalling the contractionary monetary policy 
stance to keep the inflation rate within the desired range. In the 
Monetary Policy Committee (‘MPC’) meeting held in April 2023, 
the RBI kept the Repo Rate unchanged at 6.5%. India’s CPI and 
WPI inflation have eased out towards the end of FY23. The Index 
of Industrial Production (‘IIP’) for manufacturing for FY23 saw a 
growth of 10.94% on a Y-o-Y basis. 
Auto Industry
The Indian automobile sector is one of the largest segment of the 
manufacturing industry and it plays a significant role in the Indian 
economy. During the year under review, India became the third-
largest automobile market, surpassing Japan as vehicle sales 
rose on the back of easing semiconductor issues and a strong 
demand rebound. 
The industry experienced a healthy upswing in FY23, supported 
by a recovery in economic activity and increased mobility. Demand 
sentiment for most automotive segments i.e. passenger cars, 
commercial vehicles and tractors, has remained healthy, resulting 
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS REPORT
in improved sales for industry players. The commercial vehicle (CV) 
segment has been growing strongly, and it is even crossing the 
FY19 peak. This has been aided by increased infra spends by the 
government, healthy replacement demand, last-mile connectivity, 
propelling e-commerce demand and increased industrial activity. 
Improved margins of major commercial vehicle OEMs have been 
aided by the uptick in volumes, improved product mix and benefits 
of commodity price correction.
The Indian government has been taking various initiatives to 
promote the growth of the automobile sector in the country. These 
initiatives include the National Electric Mobility Mission Plan which 
aims to promote the adoption of electric vehicles in the country, 
and the Automotive Mission Plan 2016-26 which focuses on 
developing the sector’s competitiveness and promoting innovation.
Amid the ongoing electrification transition, the OEMs are expected 
to incur significant investments in the development of ground-
up electric vehicle platforms and enhance their manufacturing 
capacities.
Auto Ancillary Market in India
The auto ancillary market is expected to reach INR 7,739.32 Bn by 
FY 2027, expanding at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) 
of 12.06% during the FY 2023 – FY 2027 period. The market will 
benefit from the healthy exports of auto and auto components from 
India to high-consumption markets such as the USA, Germany, 
and Turkey, etc. 
Further, improved demand for passenger vehicles coupled new 
launches of EV’s augmented the market in FY 2022. The changing 
demographics of the country with an increasing share of the 
working population have contributed to the demand for our domestic 
consumption. Introduction of BS-VI standards of safety, the shift 
towards electric mobility, robust growth in domestic automobile 
production, and favourable government policies are some of the 
major growth drivers of the Indian auto ancillary market.
Group Overview
PPAP Automotive Limited (PPAP) was established in 1978 for 
manufacturing custom made extrusion products. Today, the 
company along with its subsidiaries and joint venture companies, 
deliver value added products to various customers in the 
Automotive and the Ancillary Industry.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
104
Leadership Indicators
1. 
Channels / platforms where information on products and services of PPAP can be accessed (provide web link if applicable). 
 
 Information on products and services can be availed from the official website of PPAP. Link for the same is as follows: https://www.
ppapco.in/ 
2. 
 Steps taken to inform and educate consumers, especially vulnerable and marginalised consumers, about safe and 
responsible usage of products and services
 
 PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. Safe and responsible 
usage of product ensured by collaboration of OEM customers with their terms of manufacturing and delivery of products. 
3. 
Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services
 
 PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. However, PPAP has 
contingency plan of covering the risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services and very well informed to all customers.
4. 
 Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/
Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief. 
 
 Not applicable as PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. 
However, PPAP displays product label on part by laser printing as per customer requirements. The label displays information 
related to part manufacturing date, time and material used. We also provide details about the material used to customer like SOC 
(Substances of Concern) free, Conflict Mineral free, POP (Persistent Organic Pollutants) free and compliance with RoHS (Restriction 
of Hazardous Substances).
5. 
 Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products / services of the 
entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No)
 
 Not applicable as PPAP supplies to Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and there is no direct visibility for the end user. 
However, PPAP engages with its customers at various platforms to understand their expectations and has a well-defined system 
to measure customer satisfaction at regular intervals. Customer satisfaction are one of the most important factors of any business. 
Customer Satisfaction trends are compiled, monitored, and reviewed by top management on a periodic basis and action plans are 
discussed with customers.
6. 
Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
 
a. 
Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact
 
 
Nil 
 
b. 
Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers 
 
 
Nil
107
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Commercial tooling business aims to increase its reach 
to PAN India, shift to technology-based tooling’s, enhance 
competitiveness, and sector diversification.
Electric Vehicle Component Business 
The Company has also ventured into the Electric Vehicle 
(“EV”) market by establishing a wholly owned subsidiary PPAP 
Technology Limited (“PTech”) in 2020. 
The focus is to provide engineering solutions to various customers 
& develop P-Tech as application engineering solution provider to 
customer.
Ptech have state-of-the-art facilities for design, development, 
and manufacturing of Li-Ion Battery Pack. The facility comprises 
complete manufacturing, testing and validation of Battery Packs. 
P-Tech manufactures Lithium-Ion battery packs for mobility 
and storage segments. It customizes the battery packs as per 
customer requirements. Ptech is also developing various solutions 
for energy storage systems like solar streetlights, backup power 
for telecom towers, UPS back up, etc. The Company’s product 
portfolio for electric vehicle component business is shown on page 
no.10.
Ptech has the capacity of 213 MW /annum at Noida, Uttar Pradesh. 
India has been making steady progress in the adoption of EV as 
part of its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and air 
pollution. There have been multiple interventions across Central 
and State Governments in this regard.
The Union Budget 2023 also has several provisions to promote EV 
industry in the country. One of the most significant announcements 
in the budget is the reduction in customs duty on lithium batteries 
from 21% to 13%. The government has also reduced the Goods 
and Services Tax (‘GST’) on the sale of EVs from 12% to 5%, 
which is making them more affordable for buyers. 
The various initiatives by government opens the gateway for 
electric vehicle business to flourish in near future.
Industrial Product Business
Industrial product business aims to explore plastic extrusion, 
plastic injection moulding and rubber extrusion in areas outside 
the automotive industry.
It manufactures parts for robot for solar panel cleaning, paint 
dispensers, pail buckets, building materials and housing 
equipment, home appliances including electrical home appliances 
& modern bath fittings. The Company’s portfolio for industrial 
product business is shown at page no. 13
The facility is located at Surajpur Industrial Area, Uttar Pradesh. 
Opportunities and threats 
Opportunities
• 
 Growing Demand in Emerging Markets: The financial year 
2022-23 presented opportunities for growth in emerging 
markets. Rising disposable incomes, urbanization, and 
expanding middle-class population created a favorable 
environment for increased vehicle sales. We pursued market 
expansion strategies and tailored our product offerings to 
cater to the unique demands of these markets.
• 
 Electric Vehicle (EV) Market Expansion: The increasing global 
demand for electric vehicles presented significant growth 
opportunities. We have invested in research and development 
to enhance our EV related products and offerings, aiming to 
capture a larger market share in the segment. 
• 
 Technological 
Advancements: 
Rapid 
technological 
advancements, including connectivity, autonomous driving, 
and advanced safety features, opened doors for innovation 
and differentiation. By embracing these technologies, we aim 
to deliver enhanced customer experiences and improve the 
competitiveness. Collaborations with technology partners 
and EV startups helped us leverage these opportunities.
• 
 Sustainability and Emissions Reduction: The heightened 
focus on environmental sustainability and regulatory 
requirements created opportunities to develop and market 
eco-friendly products. Our commitment to sustainability has 
positioned us favorably in a market increasingly driven by 
environmental concerns.
Threats 
• 
 Supply Chain Disruptions: The global supply chain faced 
various disruptions during the financial year 2022-23, 
including raw material shortages, transportation challenges, 
and geopolitical tensions. We employed proactive risk 
management strategies, such as supplier diversification and 
inventory optimization, to mitigate these threats.
• 
 Volatile Raw Material Prices: Fluctuations in raw material 
prices posed a threat to our cost structure and profitability. We 
closely monitored markets, hedged where appropriate, and 
worked with suppliers to manage price volatility. Continuous 
cost optimization efforts and efficiency improvements were 
implemented to counter these challenges.
• 
 Competitive Landscape: The industry remained highly 
competitive, with established players and new entrants vying 
for market share. Intense competition placed pressure on 
pricing, margins, and market positioning. We continuously 
monitored market trends, consumer preferences, and 
competitor strategies to differentiate ourselves through 
product innovation, quality, and customer experience.
• 
 Changing Regulatory Landscape: Evolving regulations, both 
domestic and international, poses compliance challenges 
and increased operational complexities. Regulatory changes 
necessitated ongoing monitoring, flexibility and change in our 
operations.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
106
The company’s core competence is in developing Plastic and 
Rubber based extrusions as well as Plastic injection mouldings for 
various industries. The company also focuses on developing high 
precision plastic injection moulding tooling’s.
The company started its journey of achieving Global Level 
Excellence in 1985 with the start of the Automotive Business. Over 
the years the company has strived to delight its customers in the 
Automotive Industry as well as Industrial Products industry. PPAP 
group is poised to establish itself as a leading product solutions 
company in the areas of its core competence.
With the advent of electrification of the Automotive Industry, PPAP 
has established itself as one of the leading manufacturers of Li-Ion 
based Battery pack solution provider for the 2-wheeler, 3-wheeler 
and energy storage industry.
The rapid globalization is opening new opportunities for the 
automobile industry, especially while it makes a shift from ICE 
towards electric, electronic and hybrid cars, which are deemed 
more efficient, safe, and reliable mode of transportation. Over the 
next decade, this will lead to new verticals and opportunities for 
auto-component manufacturers, who would need to adapt change 
via systematic and innovative R&D.
The group has focussed on achieving ESG standards with the 
objective of running the operations sustainably and responsibly. 
Through the company’s CSR activities, there is a constant focus 
on enriching people’s lives in areas of Environment, Education 
and Health. The group supports various biodiversity parks by 
planting and sustaining native trees to improve the environmental 
conditions.
We are completely poised with dynamism and resilience to 
navigate through the volatile environment due to our relentless 
focus on global level excellence, in each area, of our operations.
Automotive Parts Business:
PPAP has emerged as amongst the largest manufacturers 
of automotive sealing systems, interior and exterior injection 
moulded products in India.
The Company is dedicated to conducting customer focused 
research and development to deliver safer, smarter, and high-
quality products. PPAP has strengthened its relationship with 
original equipment manufacturer (‘OEM’) customers. The 
Company serves almost all major OEMs in the passenger vehicle 
segment in India and has also expanded in to commercial and two 
and three-wheeler segment. 
Your company has successfully expanded its spares and 
accessories business during FY23 to Wall Mount Chargers, 
Sunroof sealing system, 2W EV segment. The Company’s product 
portfolio for automotive parts business is shown at page no 12.
The automotive parts business has its manufacturing presence 
at Noida (Uttar Pradesh), Surajpur (Uttar Pradesh), Pathredi 
(Rajasthan), Vallam Vadagal (Tamil Nadu) and Viramgam (Gujarat). 
Further sales offices are operating from Pune and Chennai. 
During FY23, the Company expanded its Chennai facility to meet 
the future customers’ requirements. It has also installed new 
Injection molding machines in Pathredi, Rajasthan. Measures 
have been undertaken to efficiency improve Line speed in Noida, 
Uttar Pradesh. 
Factors that will significantly impact demand in F24 are:
With advancements in technology, a shift to electric and 
autonomous vehicles, a focus on sustainability, and the rise of 
e-commerce and digitalization, the automotive part business is 
primed for major changes and growth in the future.
After market and spare parts business:
The Company has ventured into the after-market business as 
part of its growth and de-risking strategy. The Company through 
its wholly owned subsidiary company, namely, Elpis Components 
Distributors Private Limited (“Elpis”) is engaged in this business. 
The focus of Elpis is to promote spare parts as well as premium 
car accessories to the customer all over the country. Elpis is 
striving sales growth by enhancing product range majorly in all 
plastics, rubber sealing products as well as high quality premium 
car accessories & car care products through B2B & B2C channels. 
The Company’s product portfolio for aftermarket business is 
shown at page no.11. 
Elpis started this business with a warehouse in Okhla, New Delhi. 
Subsequently, it has restructured and consolidated its spare 
parts business in its facility located at Surajpur Industrial Area, 
Uttar Pradesh. This facility focuses on supply of parts to its OEM 
customers as well as develop and supply parts for the Company’s 
aftermarket initiatives. 
Elpis has established a distribution network and is foraying into 
e-commerce by promoting the products on e-commerce websites 
(Amazon) as well as its own online shopping portal (shopelpis.com).
Commercial Tooling Business:
The Company has commercialized its tooling facility in 2019 to 
make plastic injection tooling. An inhouse tooling facility, gives a 
complete solution to the customer wherein with one company, 
the customer can get everything done. That is what makes PPAP 
attractive over our competitors.
The tooling facility can develop Gas assist moulds, multi cavity 
moulds, hot runner with / without sequential valve gate, etc. for 
the products having special requirements like chrome plating, 
painting, high gloss, and graining. The commercial tooling facility 
is developing tooling for Automotive, Electrical, White Goods and 
Medical sector, as well. The Company’s tooling portfolio is shown 
at page no.13.
The Tooling facility is situated at Surajpur Industrial Area, Uttar 
Pradesh. 
109
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
TO THE MEMBERS OF PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
Report on the Audit of Standalone Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED (“the Company”), which comprise 
the Balance Sheet as at 31st March 2023, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including Other Comprehensive Income), the Cash Flow 
Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of 
the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred to as “the standalone financial statements”).
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid standalone financial statements 
give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view in conformity 
with the Indian Accounting Standards prescribed under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015, as amended, (“IND AS”) and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the Company as 
at March 31, 2023, the profit and total comprehensive income, changes in equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our 
report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (ICAI) together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions 
of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Rules issued there under and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with 
these requirements and the ICAI’s Code of Ethics. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the standalone 
financial statements.
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the standalone financial 
statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the standalone financial statements as a 
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized to the extent that economic benefit will 
flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. It 
is measured at fair value consideration received or receivable, net 
of returns and allowances, discounts and rebates. The Company 
recognizes revenue when it satisfies its performance obligation by 
transferring the goods to the customers.
Revenue is key driver of the business and judgement is involved 
in determining when contractual obligations have been performed 
and to the extent that the right to consideration has been earned. 
The management of the Company focuses on revenue as a 
key performance measure which could create an incentive for 
revenue to be recognized before the risks and rewards have 
been transferred. We therefore identified revenue recognition as 
a significant risk and key audit matter.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: 
• 
 We understood business revenue recognition policy and how 
they are applied, including the relevant controls, and tested 
controls over revenue recognition;
• 
 Analytical review of the revenue recognized over the year; 
• 
 Agreeing on a sample basis amounts of revenue to customer 
contracts and verifying the extent, timing and customer 
acceptance of goods, where relevant. 
• 
 We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue 
transactions around the period end date, to check that they 
were recognized in the appropriate period; and
• 
 We 
discussed 
key 
contractual 
arrangements 
with 
management and obtained relevant documentation, including 
in respect of rebate and returns arrangements. 
The Company’s accounting policy on revenue recognition is shown 
in note 2.2(h) to the financial statements and related disclosures 
are included in note 25. 
Based on our audit procedures we did not identify any evidence 
of material misstatement in the revenue recognized for the year 
ended 31st March, 2019 in the standalone financial statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
108
Risks
• 
 Technological 
Disruptions: 
Rapid 
advancements 
in 
technology, including autonomous vehicles, connectivity, and 
electric mobility, created both opportunities and risks. Failure 
to keep pace with technological advancements could result in 
a loss of market share and competitiveness. 
 
 Mitigation Strategies: We prioritized investments in research 
and development to stay at the forefront of technological 
innovation.
• 
 Economic and Market Volatility: Economic downturns, 
changes in consumer spending patterns, and market 
uncertainties posed risks to our sales volumes, pricing power, 
and financial performance. 
 
 Mitigation Strategies: We conduct regular market research 
and analysis to anticipate changes in consumer preferences 
and adjust our product offerings accordingly. 
Outlook
Our relentless focus on cost management, fiscal prudence, value 
engineering and customer partnering has enabled the Company 
to record a creditable performance demonstrating its ‘Engineering 
Advantage’. The Company is confident that it can utilise future 
opportunities and face future challenges with agility in order to 
meet the shareholders’ expectation of sustainable growth and 
profitability. The key focus areas are: 
• 
New Products / Services for Existing and New Customers. 
• 
Retaining the existing Customers. 
• 
Enhance the share of non-automotive businesses.
• 
Debt reduction and thereby savings in interest costs. 
• 
Increasing the Value Addition per product. 
• 
To improve the EBITDA margins.
Financial Performance
Despite the challenging operational environment, the Company 
reported a revenue growth of 20.35% on stand-alone basis.
The standalone EBITDA witnessed an increase of 16.44% during 
FY23 and stood at ` 45.55 Crores.
Significant changes in key financial ratios along with explanation 
forms part of Note no. 45 of standalone financial statements.
Internal Control System and their adequacy
The Indian industry has witnessed a major shift towards better 
internal controls with mandatory implementation of internal 
financial controls (IFC). The Company has put in place strong 
internal controls, systems and processes and keeps reviewing 
their adequacy from time to time. There is a strong system of 
both internal reviews, as well as review by external independent 
auditors.
Human Resources
The Company employ the best available talent in the country 
and considers it a privilege to work with them. Our people are 
the greatest contributors in the continued success, and we are 
committed to their overall well-being. They have been instrumental 
in making our organisation a ‘Great Place to Work’. We believe 
that an inclusive work environment inspires employees to perform 
better, thus driving business growth.
We have a firm belief that a high quality and motivated workforce 
can be the key to achieve our strategic objectives. We offer 
innovative people practices in a manufacturing set-up with 
opportunities for employees across all levels. We specifically 
focus on talent management, employee management, employee 
communication and learnings & development. We also provide the 
right platform for our employees to their skills, competence levels 
and experience to help enrich our strength as an organisation. The 
on-the-job learning modules also help our employees to deliver 
higher performance and make them ready as leaders of tomorrow.
Safety, Health, and Environment
PPAP continually strives to accomplish ESG (Environment, Social 
and Governance) parameters.
PPAP 
is 
undertaking 
various 
environment 
management 
programmes & projects to reduce GHG footprints, energy & water 
intensity and waste reduction from its manufacturing operations 
aligning the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals). 
The key areas are: 
• Prevent pollution and reduce environmental impacts 
• Waste optimization regulations
• Governing chemicals and 
• Contribution towards global SDG
Several certifications adopted by PPAP in this area as elaborated 
below:
Location
I
S
O 
I A T F 
16949: 
2009
I
S
O 
14001: 
2015
I
S
O 
45001: 
2018
I
S
O 
50001: 
2018
PPAP
Plant at (Noida)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Plant at (Surajpur)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Plant at (Pathredi)
Y
Y
Y
Y
Plant at (Vallam 
Vadagal)
*
Y
Y
*
Plant at (Viramgam)
Y
Y
Y
*
* Planned during FY24
Cautionary Statement
Statements in the management discussion & analysis report 
describing the Company’s objectives, expectations or forecasts 
may be forward looking within the meaning of applicable laws. 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the 
statement. Important factors that could influence the Company’s 
operations include global and domestic demand and supply 
conditions affecting selling prices, raw material availability and 
prices, changes in government regulations, tax laws, economic 
developments within the country and other factors such as 
litigation and industrial relations.
111
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the interim condensed standalone financial statements that, individually or in aggregate, 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the financial statements may be influenced. We 
consider quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work; 
and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in the financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. 
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the Standalone Financial Statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 and are therefore the key audit matters. We 
describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely 
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing 
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
1. 
As required by Section 143 (3) of the Act, based on our audit we report that:
 
(a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary 
for the purpose of our audit.
 
(b)  In our opinion proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as appears from our 
examination of those books.
 
(c)  The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss (including the Other Comprehensive income), the Cash Flow Statement 
and the Statement of Changes in Equity dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
 
(d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Financial Statements comply with the Indian Accounting Standards specified under 
section 133 of the Act.
 
(e)  On the basis of the written representations received from the directors as on 31st March, 2023, taken on record by the Board 
of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31st March, 2023 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 
164(2) of the Act. 
 
(f) 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company and the operating 
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure I”. Our report expresses an unmodified opinion on the 
adequacy and operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting.
 
(g)  The Company has paid excess managerial remuneration of ` 64.97 lakhs to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman & Managing 
director of the Company during the financial year 2023, exceeding the limits specified under section 197 of the Act read with 
Schedule V thereto on account of inadequacy of profits computed under Section 198 of the Act. However, the remuneration 
paid during the financial year 2023 was within the limits approved by the shareholder. The Company has represented to us that 
pursuant to section 197(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, it is in the process of seeking approval of shareholders and the said 
excess remuneration paid is held in trust for the Company by Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain till the necessary compliance is made. Other 
remuneration paid is within the limits specified in section 197 of the Act.
 
(h)  With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us:
 
 
i. 
The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial statements.
 
 
ii. 
 The Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material 
foreseeable losses.
 
 
iii. 
 There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred during the year, to the Investor Education and 
Protection Fund by the Company.
 
 
iv. 
 (a) The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
 (b) The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
110
Information other than the Financial Statements and Auditor’s Report thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in 
the Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it 
becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our 
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to 
report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Management’s Responsibility for the Standalone Financial Statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with 
respect to the preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs (financial position), 
profit or loss (financial performance including other comprehensive income), cash flows and changes in equity of the Company in 
accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards (IND AS) prescribed 
under Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 as amended. This responsibility also 
includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; 
making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal 
financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the 
preparation and presentation of the IND AS financial statements, that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the standalone financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management 
either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The Board of Directors are responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the IND AS financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also: 
1. 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 
2. 
 Obtain an understanding of internal controls relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company has 
adequate internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. 
3. 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management. 
4. 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our 
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or 
conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern. 
5. 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether 
the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 
113
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
ANNEXURE-I TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 1(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Report on the Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting under Clause (i) of subsection 3 of Section 143 of the 
Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED (“the Company”) as of 31st March 
2023 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date. 
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Management of the Company is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control 
over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the 
Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of 
India (the “ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that 
were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including adherence to company’s policies, the 
safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, 
and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act. 
Auditors’ Responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Company based on 
our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting 
(the “Guidance Note”) issued by the ICAI and the Standards on Auditing prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, 
to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with 
ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls 
over financial reporting was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over 
financial reporting and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial reporting included obtaining an 
understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on 
the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud 
or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the 
Company’s internal financial controls system over financial reporting.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles. A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 
(1)  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the 
assets of the company; 
(2)  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only 
in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and 
(3)  provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any 
evaluation of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control 
over financial reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or 
procedures may deteriorate. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
112
individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entity 
(“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the 
Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
 (c) Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 11(e), 
as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material misstatement.
 
 
v. 
The dividend declared or paid during the year by the Company is in compliance with the Section 123 of the Act.
2. 
 As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government of India in terms of 
Section 143(11) of the Act, and on the basis of such checks of the books and records of the Company as we considered appropriate 
and according to the information and explanations given to us, we give in “Annexure II” a statement on the matters specified in 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the said Order, to the extent applicable. 
3. 
 Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 for maintaining books of account using accounting software which 
has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility is applicable to the Company with effect from April 1, 2023, and accordingly, 
reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is not applicable for the financial year ended March 31, 
2023.. 
 
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
Place: Noida 
Sanjeev Agarwal
Date: 19th May, 2023 
Partner
M No.408316
UDIN: 23091885BGJIQ8080
115
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
ANNEXURE- II TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date)
Based on the audit procedures performed for the purpose of reporting a true and fair view on the financial statements of the Company 
and taking into consideration the information and explanations given to us and the books of account and other records examined by us 
in the normal course of audit, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we report that:
i. 
In respect of the Company’s Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets: 
 
 a) 
 (A) The company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation of Property, 
Plant and Equipment.
 
 
(B) The company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
 
b) 
 The Property, Plant and Equipment have been physically verified by the management in a phased manner, designed to cover all 
the items over a period of three years, which in our opinion, is reasonable having regard to the size of the company and nature 
of its business. Pursuant to the program, a portion of the fixed assets has been physically verified by the management during 
the year and no material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
 
c) 
 According to the information and explanations given by the management, the title deeds of immoveable properties (other than 
immovable properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the Company) 
included in property, plant and equipment are held in the name of the Company.
 
d) 
 The Company has not revalued any of its Property, Plant and Equipment (including right-of-use assets) and intangible assets 
during the year. 
 
e) 
 Based on audit procedures performed and the representation obtained from the management, no proceedings have been 
initiated during the year or are pending against the Company as at March 31, 2023 for holding any benami property under the 
Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (as amended in 2016) and rules made thereunder. 
ii. 
a) 
 As explained to us, inventories have been physically verified during the year by the management at reasonable intervals. In 
our opinion, the procedures of physical verification of inventory followed by the management are reasonable and adequate in 
relation to the size of the company and the nature of its business. We are explained that no material discrepancies have been 
noticed on physical verification. 
 
b) 
 During the year, the Company has been sanctioned working capital limits in excess of ` 5 crore by banks based on the security 
of Current Assets. There are no material variations between the quarterly statement of current assets filed during the year with 
the banks and the books of accounts. 
iii. 
a) 
 The Company has provided loans or advances in the nature of loans to its wholly owned subsidiary. The details of the same are 
given below:
Particulars
Loans
Aggregate amount during the year
- 
Subsidiary
2414.35
Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date
- 
Subsidiary
1472.65
 
 
 The Company has not provided any loans, advances in the nature of loans, security or guarantee to any other entity during the 
year.
 
b) 
 The investments made, guarantees provided, security given and terms and conditions of the grant of all loans and advances in 
the nature of loans and guarantees provided are not, prima facie, prejudicial to the Company’s interest.
 
c) 
 In respect of loans and advances in the nature of loans granted by the Company, the schedule of repayment of principal and 
the payment of the interest has not been stipulated.
 
d) 
 There is no amount which is overdue for more than 90 days in respect of loans or advances in the nature of loans granted to 
subsidiary company.
 
e) 
 The Company has not granted any loan or advance in the nature of loan which has fallen due during the year. Further, no fresh 
loans were granted to any party to settle the overdue loans/advances in nature of loan.
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
114
Opinion 
In our opinion, the company has, in all material respects, an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting and such 
internal financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at 31st March 2023, based on the internal control over 
financial reporting criteria established by the company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance 
Note on “Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting” issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
 
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
Place: Noida 
Sanjeev Agarwal
Date: 19th May, 2023 
Partner
M No.408316
UDIN: 23091885BGJIQ8080
117
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
b) 
 The company has not made preferential allotment/private placement of shares or fully or partly or optionally convertible 
debentures during the year covered under the provisions of Section 42 and 62 of Companies Act 2013 during the year under 
review.
xi. 
a) 
 Based upon the audit procedures performed and the information and explanations given by the management, we report that no 
fraud by the company and no material fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
 
b) 
 We report that no report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Companies Act has been filed by the auditors in Form 
ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
 
c) 
 According to the information and explanations given to us including the representation made to us by the management of the 
Company, there are no whistle-blower complaints received by the Company during the year.
xii.  The Company is not a Nidhi company and therefore clause 3(xii) of the Order related to such companies is not applicable to the 
Company.
xiii.  Based upon the audit procedures performed and the information and explanations given by the management, all related party 
transactions are in compliance with the Section 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013. Necessary disclosures have been made in 
the financial statements as required by the applicable accounting standards.
xiv. a) 
 In our opinion and based on our examination, the company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature 
of its business.
 
b) 
 We have considered the internal audit reports of the company issued for the current year, in determining the nature, timing and 
extent of our audit procedures.
xv.  Based upon the audit procedures performed and the information and explanations given by the management, the company has not 
entered into any non-cash transactions with directors or persons connected with him. Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3 (xv) of 
the Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
xvi.  In our opinion, in view of its business activities, the Company is not required to be registered under Section 45IA of Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934. Hence, reporting under clause 3(xvi)(a), (b) and (c) of the Order is not applicable. 
 
 Based on the information and explanations given to us and as represented by the management of the Company, the Group (as 
defined in Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) does not have any CIC.
xvii. The company has not incurred cash losses in the financial year and in the immediately preceding financial year.
xviii. There has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable.
xix.  On the basis of the financial ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, 
other information accompanying the financial statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans, we are 
of the opinion that no material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that company is capable of meeting its liabilities 
existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date. We further 
state that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any assurance 
that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by the company as and when 
they fall due. 
xx.  According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company does not have any unspent amount in respect of any 
ongoing or other than ongoing project as at the expiry of the financial year. Accordingly, reporting under clause 3(xx) of the Order is 
not applicable to the Company. 
xxi.  The reporting under clause 3(xxi) is not applicable in respect of audit of standalone financial statements of the Company. Accordingly, 
no comment has been included in respect of said clause under this report.
 
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
Place: Noida 
Sanjeev Agarwal
Date: 19th May, 2023 
Partner
M No.408316
UDIN: 23091885BGJIQ8080
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
116
 
f) 
 The Company has granted loan or advance in the nature of loan which are repayable on demand or without specifying any 
terms or period of repayment, as per details below:
Particulars
All Parties
Promoters
Related Parties
Aggregate of loans/advances in nature of loan
- Repayable on demand (A)
- Agreement does not specify any terms or 
period of repayment (B)
1472.65
-
1472.65
Total (A+B)
1472.65
-
1472.65
Percentage of loans/advances in nature of 
loan to the total loans
100%
100%
iv. 
 In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has complied with the provisions of 
sections 185 and 186 of the Act in respect of loans, investments, guarantees and security, as applicable.
v. 
 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted any deposit or amounts which are 
deemed to be deposits. Hence, reporting under clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable. 
vi. 
 Maintenance of Cost records has been specified by the Central Government. We have broadly reviewed such records and are of the 
opinion that prescribed accounts and records have been maintained. We have, however, not made a detailed examination of the cost 
records with a view to determine whether they are accurate or complete.
vii. a) 
 As per information and explanations given to us, the company is generally regular in depositing undisputed statutory dues 
including provident fund, employees’ state insurance, income-tax, sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value 
added tax, goods and service tax, cess and other statutory dues with the appropriate authorities. As informed to us there are 
no outstanding statutory dues in arrears as at the last day of the financial year concerned for a period of more than six months 
from the date they became payable.
 
b) 
 We have been informed that following disputed demands in respect of VAT, excise duty and income tax have not been deposited 
on account of pending appeals:
Particular's
Period
Amount
Forum where appeal is pending
Sales Tax / VAT
2004-2005
45,441
Joint Commissioner of Sales Tax (Appeals)
Excise Duty
May, 2004 to July, 2004
2,11,792
Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), Delhi
Excise Duty
April, 2015 to March, 2016
70,72,000
Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), Delhi
Excise Duty
April, 2013 to June, 2017
18,95,000
Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT), Delhi
Income Tax
A.Y. 2017-2018
41,37,000
Commissioner (Appeals), Delhi
viii.  Based on our audit procedures and on the basis of information and explanations given to us by the management, there were no 
transactions relating to previously unrecorded income that have been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax 
assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) during the year.
ix. 
a) 
 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given by the management, the Company has not defaulted in 
repayment of loans or borrowings or in the payment of interest thereon to any bank or financial institution or government or any 
other lender during the year.
 
b) 
 According to the information and explanations given to us and on the basis of our audit procedures, we report that the company 
has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority.
 
c) 
 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given by the management, the Company has utilized the 
monies raised by way of term loans during the year for the purposes for which they were raised. 
 
d) 
 According to the information and explanations given to us, and the procedures performed by us, and on an overall examination 
of the financial statements of the company, we report that no funds raised on short-term basis have, prima facie, been used for 
long-term purposes by the company.
 
e) 
 According to the information and explanations given to us and on an overall examination of the financial statements of the 
Company, the Company has not taken any funds from any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its 
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
 
f) 
 According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not raised any loans during the year on the pledge 
of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associate companies.
x. 
a) 
 Based upon the audit procedures performed and the information and explanations given by the management, the company has 
not raised money by way of initial public offer or further public offer including debt instruments and term Loans during the year. 
Accordingly, the provisions of clause 3 (x) of the Order are not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
119
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
Particulars
Notes
 Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
INCOME
Revenue from operations
25
 49,232.17 
 40,907.21 
Other income
26
 329.74 
 199.65 
Total Income (I) 
 49,561.91 
 41,106.86 
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
27
 30,971.45 
 24,375.90 
Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and stock-in-trade
28
 (887.16)
 332.18 
Employee benefits expense
29
 7,904.21 
 6,961.20 
Finance costs
30
 1,029.83 
 598.30 
Depreciation and amortization expense
31
 2,954.00 
 2,895.09 
Other expenses
32
 6,688.26 
 5,333.00 
Total Expenses (II)
 48,660.59 
 40,495.66 
Profit / (loss) before tax from continuing operations (I-II)
 901.32 
 611.20 
Tax expenses
22
Current tax
 93.17 
 109.16 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
 44.12 
 36.55 
Deferred tax
 83.01 
 6.67 
Profit / (loss) for the year
 681.02 
 458.82 
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
33
Items that will not be reclassified to profit & loss in subsequent periods
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans
 (20.03)
 (15.47)
Income tax effect on such items
 5.04 
 3.89 
Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 (14.99)
 (11.58)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 666.03 
 447.24 
Earnings per equity share (computed on the basis of profit for the year) 
34
(1) Basic (in `)
 4.86 
 3.28 
(2) Diluted (in `)
 4.84 
 3.28 
Significant accounting policies 
2
The accompanying Notes 1 to 57 form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
(` in lacs)
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
118
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
31.03.2023
 As at 
31.03.2022 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
 29,255.26 
 26,137.98 
Capital work-in-progress
3a
 891.74 
 2,078.66 
Right of use assets
4
 84.22 
 113.85 
Investment properties
5
 90.39 
 106.28 
Other intangible assets
6
 746.40 
 877.46 
Intangible assets under development
6a
 172.68 
 - 
Financial assets
a. Investments
7
 6,504.28 
 6,304.28 
b. Other financial assets
8
 243.49 
 373.18 
Other non-current assets
9
 943.41 
 1,031.14 
 38,931.87 
 37,022.83 
Current assets
Inventories
10
 5,812.35 
 4,291.41 
Financial assets
a. Investments
7
 445.48 
 269.74 
b. Trade receivables
11
 6,191.14 
 5,215.54 
c. Cash and cash equivalents
12
 41.32 
 23.06 
d. Other balances with banks
13
 11.38 
 13.22 
e. Loans
14
 1,480.91 
 750.51 
f. Other financial assets
8
 180.73 
 175.21 
Current tax assets (net)
15
 113.82 
 123.78 
Other current assets
16
 995.74 
 1,145.54 
 15,272.87 
 12,008.01 
Total Assets
 54,204.74 
 49,030.84 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
17
 1,400.00 
 1,400.00 
Other equity
18
 30,249.10 
 29,884.31 
 31,649.10 
 31,284.31 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
19
 6,718.69 
 7,237.05 
Lease liabilities
4
 33.19 
 66.66 
Other financial liabilities
20
 19.28 
 22.41 
Provisions
21
 578.27 
 626.40 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
22
 785.37 
 707.42 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
19
 5,529.56 
 1,937.22 
Lease liabilities
4
 54.46 
 47.16 
Trade payables
23
- total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 1,022.79 
 641.97 
- total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 5,194.56 
 4,044.29 
Other financial liabilities 
20
 555.31 
 580.11 
Other current liabilities
24
 1,964.85 
 1,751.02 
Provisions
21
 99.31 
 84.82 
Total Liabilities
 22,555.64 
 17,746.53 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 54,204.74 
 49,030.84 
Significant accounting policies 
2
The accompanying Notes 1 to 57 form an integral part of these financial statements.
BALANCE SHEET  
AS AT 31st MARCH,2023
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
121
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Investment in fixed deposits (purchased) / matured
 1.84 
 (0.38)
Interest income
 233.18 
 82.81 
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (4,991.69)
 (7,023.75)
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Loan
 (730.40)
 (696.73)
Payment of lease liabilities (refer note 4)
 (45.05)
 (26.95)
Interest paid
 (894.65)
 (451.82)
Proceeds / (repayment) of long term borrowings
 (518.36)
 3,011.43 
Proceeds / (repayment) of short term borrowings
 3,592.34 
 1,203.88 
Dividends paid
 (350.00)
 (140.00)
Net cash flow from financing activities (C)
 1,053.88 
 2,899.80 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 18.26 
 (77.65)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the 
year
 23.06 
 100.71 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 41.32 
 23.06 
Components of cash and cash equivalents at the 
end of the year
Cash on hand
 23.71 
 22.50 
Balance with banks
On current accounts
 0.93 
 0.56 
Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 16.68 
 - 
 41.32 
 23.06 
Significant accounting policies 
2
The accompanying Notes 1 to 57 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Note:
The cash flow statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7 ‘Statement 
of Cash Flows’.
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
120
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net profit before tax
 901.32 
 611.20 
Adjusted for
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 2,954.00 
 2,895.09 
Interest expense
 894.65 
 451.82 
Balances written off
 5.69 
 9.64 
Provision for bad & doubtful debts
 (1.06)
 (1.30)
Profit on sale of investments
 (13.75)
 (4.24)
Employees share based payments
 45.98 
 - 
Unrealised exchange Loss/(Gain)
 (3.30)
 (14.31)
Interest income
 (233.18)
 (82.81)
 3,649.03 
 3,253.89 
Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes
 4,550.35 
 3,865.09 
Working capital adjustments
Decrease / (Increase) in inventories
 (1,520.94)
 (114.46)
Decrease / (Increase) in trade and other receivables
 (541.15)
 617.31 
Movement in trade and other payables
 1,723.42 
 139.64 
Movement in provisions
 (48.63)
 (119.13)
 (387.30)
 523.36 
Cash generated from operations
 4,163.05 
 4,388.45 
Direct taxes refunded / (paid)
 (206.99)
 (342.16)
Net cash from operating activities (A)
 3,956.06 
 4,046.29 
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant, equipment
 (1,714.96)
 (5,911.58)
Purchase of assets in CWIP
 (2,903.62)
 (64.73)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (73.50)
 (189.00)
Purchase of Intangible assets under development
 (172.68)
 (3.50)
Sale of tangible fixed assets
 3.18 
 81.03 
Sale / (purchase) of current investments
 (175.74)
 (269.74)
Sale / (purchase) of non current investments
 (203.13)
 (752.90)
Profit on sale of investments
 13.75 
 4.24 
(` in lacs)
123
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
1. 
Corporate information
 
 PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED (“PPAP” or “the Company”) is a limited company domiciled in India and was incorporated on 18th 
October, 1995. The registered office of the Company is located at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate Phase III New Delhi - 110020, India.
 
 The company’s core competence is in developing plastic and driver-based extrusion systems as well as plastic injection moulding 
systems for various industries. The company is also in the business of developing high-precision plastic injection tooling for various 
industries. The Company’s state of the art manufacturing facilities are located in Noida (UP), Greater Noida (UP), Vallam Vadagal 
(Tamil Nadu) Pathredi (Rajasthan) and Ukhlod (Gujarat). 
 
The Company is listed on the BSE Limited and the National Stock Exchange of India Limited. 
 
 The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31st March 2023 were authorized for issue in accordance with a 
resolution of the Directors on 19th May, 2023.
2. 
Significant accounting policies
 
2.1 Basis of preparation
 
 
 The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) as 
prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 
and the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendment) Rules, 2016.
 
 
 The financial statements have been prepared on accrual and going concern basis under the historical cost convention, except 
for the certain assets and liabilities which have been measured at different basis and such basis has been disclosed in relevant 
accounting policy.
 
 
 The financial statements are presented in INR and all values are rounded to the nearest lakh (INR 00,000), except when 
otherwise indicated.
 
2.2 Significant accounting policies
 
 
a. 
Current versus non-current classification
 
 
 
The Company presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current / non-current classification. 
 
 
 
An asset/ liability is treated as current when it is:
 
 
 
• 
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed or settled in normal operating cycle
 
 
 
• 
Held primarily for the purpose of trading
 
 
 
• 
Expected to be realised/settled within twelve months after the reporting period,
 
 
 
• 
 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period 
 
 
 
• 
 There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period.
 
 
 
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current. 
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities respectively.
 
 
b. 
Property, plant and equipment
 
 
 
i. 
Tangible assets
 
 
 
 
 Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost [i.e., cost of acquisition or construction inclusive of freight, erection 
and commissioning charges, non-refundable duties and taxes, expenditure during construction period, borrowing 
costs (in case of a qualifying asset) upto the date of acquisition/ installation], net of accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
 
 
 
 
 When significant parts of property, plant and equipment (identified individually as component) are required to be 
replaced at intervals, the Company derecognizes the replaced part, and recognizes the new part with its own 
associated useful life and it is depreciated accordingly. Whenever major inspection/overhaul/repair is performed, 
its cost is recognized in the carrying amount of respective assets as a replacement, if the recognition criteria are 
satisfied. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 
 The present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its use is included in the cost of the 
respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
122
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
AS AT 31st MARCH, 2023
A. 
Equity share capital (refer note 17) 
(` in lacs)
Equity shares of ` 10 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
No. of Shares
Amount
At 1st April, 2021
 1,40,00,000 
 1,400.00 
Issue of share capital
 - 
 - 
At 31st March, 2022
 1,40,00,000 
 1,400.00 
Issue of share capital
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 1,40,00,000 
 1,400.00 
B. 
Other equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Items of Other 
comprehensive 
income
Total equity
(refer note 18)
General 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
earnings
Employee 
Stock 
Options 
reserve
Re-measurement 
gains / (losses) 
on defined benefit 
plans
At 1st April, 2021
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  21,471.22 
 - 
 (53.11)
 29,577.06 
Net income / (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 458.84 
 - 
 - 
 458.84 
Other comprehensive income (note 33)
 (11.58)
 (11.58)
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 458.84 
 - 
 (11.58)
 447.26 
Final dividend
 - 
 - 
 (140.00)
 - 
 - 
 (140.00)
As at 31st March, 2022
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  21,790.06 
 (64.69)
 29,884.31 
Net income / (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 681.02 
 - 
 - 
 681.02 
Share based payments (Refer note 36)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 48.76 
 - 
 48.76 
Other comprehensive income (note 33)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (14.99)
 (14.99)
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 681.02 
 48.76 
 (14.99)
 714.80 
Final dividend
 - 
 - 
 (350.00)
 - 
 - 
 (350.00)
As at 31st March, 2023
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  22,121.08 
 48.76 
 (79.68)
 30,249.10 
The accompanying Notes 1 to 57 form an integral part of these financial statements.
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
125
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
f. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 
 The Company assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any 
indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable 
amount. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs 
of disposal and its value in use. Recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not 
generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
 
 
 
 When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is 
written down to its recoverable amount.
 
 
 
 Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss.
 
 
g. 
Inventories
 
 
 
 Items of inventories are measured at lower of cost and net realizable value after providing for obsolescence, wherever 
considered necessary. Cost of inventories comprises of cost of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs including 
manufacturing overheads incurred in bringing them to their respective present location and condition. Cost of raw material, 
stores and spares, packing materials, trading and other products are determined on moving weighted average basis. Work-
in-progress is carried at cost or net realisable value whichever is lower.
 
 
h. 
Revenue Recognition
 
 
 
The Company derives revenues primarily from manufacturing and sale of automotive components and molds.
 
 
 
 Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects 
the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
 
 
 
Arrangements with customers for sale of automotive components and molds are mostly on a fixed – price basis. 
 
 
 
 Revenue from fixed-price contracts are recognised when the performance obligations are satisfied upon delivery of 
components to the customers and where there is no uncertainty as to measurement or collectability of consideration. When 
there is uncertainty as to measurement or ultimate collectability, revenue recognition is postponed until such uncertainty is 
resolved.
 
 
 
 The Company accounts for volume discounts and pricing incentives to customers as a reduction of revenue based on the 
rateable allocation of the discounts/ incentives to each of the underlying performance obligation that corresponds to the 
progress by the customer towards earning the discount/ incentive. Also, when the level of discount varies with increase 
in levels of revenue transactions, the Company recognizes the liability based on its estimate of the customer’s future 
purchases. If it is probable that the criteria for the discount will not be met, or if the amount thereof cannot be estimated 
reliably, then discount is not recognized until the payment is probable and the amount can be estimated reliably. The 
Company recognizes changes in the estimated amount of obligations for discounts in the period in which the change 
occurs.
 
 
 
 Contract modifications are accounted for when additions, deletions or changes are approved either to the contract scope 
or contract price.
 
 
 
 Revenues in excess of invoicing are classified as contract assets (which we refer as unbilled revenue) while invoicing in 
excess of revenues are classified as contract liabilities (which we refer to as unearned revenues).
 
 
 
Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established.
 
 
 
 Interest income is recognized on a time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the interest rate 
applicable.
 
 
 
Foreign currency transactions
 
 
 
The Company’s financial statements are presented in INR, which is also its functional currency. 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded in functional currency using the exchange rates at the date the 
transaction.
 
 
 
 At each balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary items are reported using the exchange rate prevailing at the year 
end.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
124
 
 
 
 
 Property, plant and equipment are eliminated from financial statements, either on disposal or when retired from 
active use. Losses/gains arising in case retirement/disposals of property, plant and equipment are recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss in the year of occurrence.
 
 
 
 
 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment are provided to the extent of depreciable amount on the straight line 
(SLM) Method. Depreciation is provided at the rates and in the manner prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013 except on some assets, where useful life has been taken based on internal technical evaluation as given 
below:
Particulars
Useful lives 
Dies and Molds
15 years
 
 
 
 
 Leasehold Land and Leasehold Improvements are amortized over the period of the lease or the useful life of the 
asset, whichever is lower.
 
 
 
 
 The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation/ amortization of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
 
 
 
ii. 
Capital work in progress
 
 
 
 
 Capital work in progress includes construction stores including material in transit/ equipment / services, etc. received 
at site for use in the projects.
 
 
 
 
 All revenue expenses incurred during construction period, which are exclusively attributable to acquisition / construction 
of fixed assets, are capitalized at the time of commissioning of such assets.
 
 
c. 
Investment properties
 
 
 
 Investment properties held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both are stated in the balance sheet at cost, less 
any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is charged on 
a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Any gain or loss on disposal of investment property is determined as 
the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss. Transfer to, or from, investment property is done at the carrying amount of the property.
 
 
d. 
Intangible assets
 
 
 
 Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment loss.
 
 
 
 Intangible assets with finite lives (i.e. software and licenses) are amortized over the useful economic life and assessed for 
impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and method 
for an intangible asset is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. 
 
 
 
 Costs relating to computer software and technical know-how are capitalised and amortised on straight line method over 
their estimated useful economic life of six years.
 
 
 
Internally generated: Research & development Costs
 
 
 
 a) 
Research costs are charged to the statement of Profit and Loss in the year in which they are incurred.
 
 
 
b) 
 Product development costs incurred on new dies and molds and new products are recognised as intangible assets, 
when feasibility has been established, the Company has committed technical, financial and other resources to 
complete the development and it is probable that asset will generate future economic benefits.
 
 
 
 
 The cost of an internally generated intangible asset is the sum of directly attributable expenditure incurred from the 
date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria to the completion of its development.
 
 
 
 
 Product development costs is amortised over the life of the related product, being a period of 6 years. Product 
development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any. Amortisation is 
not recorded on product engineering in progress until development is complete.
 
 
e. 
Borrowing costs
 
 
 
 Borrowing costs are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
127
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
fund. The Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are accounted 
for as defined contribution plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. 
 
 
 
Defined benefit plans:
 
 
 
 The Company has defined benefit plan namely gratuity fund for employees. The gratuity fund is recognised by the income 
tax authorities and is administered through trust set up by the Company. Any shortfall in the size of the fund maintained 
by the trust is additionally provided for in profit or loss. The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of 
gratuity plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of 
plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by actuary using the projected unit credit method. The 
present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows by reference 
to market yields at the end of the reporting period on Government bonds that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation. The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in profit or loss.
 
 
 
 Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are included in retained earnings 
in the statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet. Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation 
resulting from plan amendments or curtailments are recognised immediately in profit or loss as past service cost. 
 
 
k. 
Employee Share based Payments
 
 
 
 The Company operates equity settled share based plan for the employees (Referred to as employee stock option plan 
(ESOP)). ESOP granted to the employees are measured at fair value of the stock options at the grant date using Black-
Scholes model. Such fair value of the equity settled share based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the 
vesting period, based on the Company’s estimate of equity shares that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase 
in equity (employee stock option reserve). At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate of number 
of equity shares expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Statement 
of Profit and Loss such that cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the 
employee stock option reserve. The Company recovers the expenses incurred on behalf of its subsidiary for the stock 
options granted to the employees of the subsidiaries. 
 
 
l. 
Royalty 
 
 
 
 The Company pays/ accrues for royalty in accordance with the relevant licence agreement with the technical know-how 
provider. The lump sum royalty incurred towards obtaining technical assistance/ technical know-how and engineering support 
to manufacture new parts, ownership of which rests with the technical know-how provider, is recognised as an intangible asset. 
Royalty payable on sales of products i.e. running royalty is charged to the Statement of Profit and loss as and when incurred.
 
 
m. Leases
 
 
 
As a lessee:
 
 
 
 The Company recognizes a right-of-use asset (ROU) and a corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in which it is 
a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. For these short-term 
and low value leases, the Company recognizes the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the 
term of the lease. Certain lease arrangements includes the options to extend or terminate the lease before the end of the lease 
term. ROU assets and lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised. 
 
 
 
Lease Liability
 
 
 
 At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease 
payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives receivable, and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The 
lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company 
and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Company exercising the option to 
terminate. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognized as expenses in the period in 
which the event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.
 
 
 
 In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease 
commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
126
 
 
 
Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions. 
 
 
i. 
Taxes on income
 
 
 
Current tax
 
 
 
 Current tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid/ recovered to/from the taxation authorities. The tax rates and 
tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
 
 
 
 Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity/other comprehensive income is recognised under the 
respective head and not in the statement of profit & loss. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax 
returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions 
where appropriate.
 
 
 
 Current tax assets are offset against current tax liabilities if, and only if, a legally enforceable right exists to set off the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
 
 
 
 Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT), paid in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 gives rise to expected future economic 
benefits in the form of adjustment of future tax liability arising within a specified period, is recognised as an asset only to the 
extent there is convincing evidence that the Company will pay normal income tax during the specified period. Such asset 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and the carrying amount of MAT credit asset is written down to the extent there is 
no longer convincing evidence to the effect that the Company will pay normal income tax during the specified period.
 
 
 
Deferred tax
 
 
 
 Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. 
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any 
unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available 
against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can 
be utilised.
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset 
is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date. Tax relating to items recognized directly in equity/other comprehensive income is recognized in 
respective head and not in the statement of profit & loss.
 
 
 
 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
 
 
j. 
Employee benefits
 
 
 
Short-term obligations
 
 
 
 Liabilities for wages and salaries including non-monetary benefits that are expected to be settled within twelve months of 
rendering the service are recognised in the period in which the employee renders the related service and are measured at 
the undiscounted amount expected to be paid.
 
 
 
Other long-term employee benefit obligations
 
 
 
 Other long-term employee benefits are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss as and when they accrue. 
The Company determines the liability using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations carried out as at the 
balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses in respect of such benefits are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
 
 
 
Post-employment obligations
 
 
 
Defined contribution plans:
 
 
 
 The Company makes payments made to defined contribution plans such as provident fund and employees’ state insurance 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
129
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
o. 
Recent accounting pronouncements
 
 
 
 Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On March 31, 2023, MCA amended the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 
2023, applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
 
 
 
(i) 
Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 This amendment requires the entities to disclose their material accounting policies rather than their significant 
accounting policies. The effective date for adoption of this amendment is annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 
2023. The Company has evaluated the amendment and the impact of the amendment is insignificant in the standalone 
financial statements.
 
 
 
(ii) Ind AS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
 
 
 
 
 The amendments will help entities to distinguish between accounting policies and accounting estimates. The definition 
of a change in accounting estimates has been replaced with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new 
definition, accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to measurement 
uncertainty”. Entities develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require items in financial statements to be 
measured in a way that involves measurement uncertainty. The Company does not expect this amendment to have 
any significant impact in its financial statements.
 
 
 
(iii) Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes
 
 
 
 
 This amendment has narrowed the scope of the initial recognition exemption so that it does not apply to transactions 
that give rise to equal and offsetting temporary differences. The effective date for adoption of this amendment is 
annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2023. The Company has evaluated the amendment and there is no 
impact on its Standalone financial statements.
 
 
p. 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand, cheques on hand and short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
 
 
 
 For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as 
defined above.
 
 
q. 
Fair value measurement
 
 
 
 The Company measures financial instruments such as derivatives and certain investments, at fair value at each balance 
sheet date. 
 
 
 
 All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized within the 
fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole: 
 
 
 
• 
Level 1 — Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
 
 
 
• 
 Level 2 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
directly or indirectly observable 
 
 
 
• 
 Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable 
 
 
 
 For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the balance sheet on a recurring basis, the Company determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization (based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
 
 
 
 For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Company has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the 
nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
 
 
r. 
 Financial instruments
 
 
 
 A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
128
date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments 
made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease 
term, a change in the lease payments.
 
 
 
Right of Use (ROU) Assets
 
 
 
 The ROU assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease payments made at or before 
the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
 
 
 
 Whenever the Company incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased asset, restore the site on which 
it is located or restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease, a provision 
is recognised and measured under Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. The costs are 
included in the related right-of-use asset.
 
 
 
 The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in section 2.3, Impairment of non-
financial assets.
 
 
 
 ROU assets are depreciated over the shorter period of the lease term and useful life of the underlying asset. If the 
Company is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the underlying 
asset’s useful life. The depreciation starts at the commencement date of the lease.
 
 
 
 Lease liability and ROU asset is separately presented in the balance sheet and lease payments is classified as financing 
cash flows.
 
 
 
As a lessor :
 
 
 
 The Company enters into lease arrangements as a lessor with respect to some of its investment properties and buildings.
 
 
 
 Leases for which the Company is a lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as finance lease. All 
other leases are classified as operating leases.
 
 
 
 Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct 
costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
 
 
 Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the Company’s net 
investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate 
of return on the Company’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
 
 
n. 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
 
 
 
 Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past events 
and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a 
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
 
 
 
 If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost.
 
 
 
Contingent liability is disclosed in the case of:
 
 
 
• 
 a present obligation arising from past events, when it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation;
 
 
 
• 
a present obligation arising from past events, when no reliable estimate is possible
 
 
 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
 
 
 
Earnings per share
 
 
 
 Basic earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed 
by dividing adjusted net profit after tax by the aggregate of weighted average number of equity shares and dilutive potential 
equity shares during the year. 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
131
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
financial instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are 
possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
 
 
 
 
 ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the group in accordance with the contract 
and all the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When 
estimating the cash flows, an entity is required to consider:
 
 
 
 
• 
 All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including prepayment, extension, call and similar options) over 
the expected life of the financial instrument.
 
 
 
 
• 
Cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms
 
 
 
 
 As a practical expedient, the Company uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio 
of its trade receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life 
of the trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed 
default rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed. On that basis, the Company 
estimates the following provision matrix at the reporting date:
Less than 6 months
6 months -1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Default rate
0.05%
1.00%
50.00%
75.00%
100.00%
 
 
 
 
 ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the 
statement of profit and loss (P&L). This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the P&L.
 
 
 
b) 
Financial liabilities
 
 
 
 
Classification
 
 
 
 
 The Company classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortized cost, except for financial 
liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be subsequently 
measured at fair value.
 
 
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
 
 
 
 All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net of 
directly attributable transaction costs. The Company’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and 
borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments.
 
 
 
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 
 
 
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: 
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
 
 
 
 
 
 After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognized as 
well as through the EIR amortization process.
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial 
liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. financial liabilities are classified 
as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes 
derivative financial instruments entered into by the Company that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationships as defined by Ind AS 109. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
 
 
 
 
 
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
 
 
 A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When 
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
130
 
 
 
a) 
Financial assets
 
 
 
 
Classification
 
 
 
 
 The Company classifies financial assets as subsequently measured at amortized cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on the basis of its business model for managing the financial 
assets and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial asset.
 
 
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement 
 
 
 
 
 All financial assets are recognized initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value 
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
 
 
 
 
Subsequent measurement 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of subsequent measurement financial assets are classified in below categories:
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets carried at amortised cost
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective 
is to hold the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding.
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if it is held within a 
business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets 
and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments 
of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The Company has made an irrevocable election 
for its investments which are classified as equity instruments to present the subsequent changes in fair value in 
other comprehensive income based on its business model. 
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are subsequently fair valued through profit 
or loss.
 
 
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is primarily derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or the 
Company has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset.
 
 
 
 
Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
 
 
 
 
 The Company has accounted for its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at cost less impairment 
loss, if any. 
 
 
 
 
Impairment of financial assets 
 
 
 
 
 The Company assesses impairment based on expected credit losses (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of 
impairment loss, the calculation of which is based on historical data, on the financial assets that are trade receivables 
or contract revenue receivables and all lease receivables.
 
 
 
 
 The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables or 
contract revenue receivables and all lease receivables resulting from transactions within the scope of Ind AS 116.
 
 
 
 
 The application of simplified approach does not require the Company to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it 
recognizes impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
 
 
 
 
 For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Company determines that 
whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased 
significantly, 12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, 
lifetime ECL is used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer 
a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss 
allowance based on 12-month ECL. 
 
 
 
 
 Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
133
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
Contingencies
 
 
 Contingent liabilities may arise from the ordinary course of business in relation to claims against the Company, including legal, 
contractor, land access and other claims. By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future 
events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of the existence, and potential quantum, of contingencies inherently involves the 
exercise of significant judgments and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
 
 
Estimates and assumptions
 
 
 The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have 
a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial 
year, are described below. The Company based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to 
market change or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Company. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions 
when they occur.
 
 
Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. It is 
determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from 
other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
 
 
 In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate 
that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining fair 
value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, an 
appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly 
traded subsidiaries or other available fair value indicators.
 
 
Defined benefit plans
 
 
 The cost of the defined benefit plan and other post-employment benefits and the present value of such obligation are determined 
using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from actual developments 
in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension 
increases. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined benefit obligation is highly 
sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
 
 
Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
 
 When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured based on 
quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the DCF model. The inputs to 
these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgment is required 
in establishing fair values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes 
in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
 
 
Impairment of financial assets
 
 
 The impairment provisions for financial assets are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates. The 
Company uses judgments in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on 
Company’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
132
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition 
of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
c) 
Offsetting of financial instruments 
 
 
 
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to 
realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
 
 
 
d) 
Derivative financial instruments
 
 
 
 
 The Company uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps, full 
currency swaps and forward commodity contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and commodity 
price risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which 
a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
 
 
 
 
 Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
 
e) 
Government grants
 
 
 
 
 Government grants are recognized where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all 
attached conditions will be complied with.
 
 
 
 
 When the grant relates to an asset, the cost of the asset is shown at gross value and grant thereon is treated as 
capital grant which is recognized as income in statement of profit and loss over the period and in proportion in which 
depreciation is charged.
 
 
 
 
 When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognized as income on a systematic basis over the periods that the 
related costs, for which it is intended to compensate, are expensed.
 
 
 
 
 When the Company receives grants of non-monetary assets, the asset and the grant are recorded at fair value 
amounts and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life in a pattern of consumption of the benefit of the 
underlying asset.
 
 
 
 
 When loans or similar assistance are provided by governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the 
current applicable market rate, the effect of this favourable interest is regarded as a government grant. The loan or 
assistance is initially recognized and measured at fair value and the government grant is measured as the difference 
between the initial carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per 
the accounting policy applicable to financial liabilities.
 
 
 
f) 
Unless specifically stated to be otherwise, these policies are consistently followed.
 
2.3 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
 
 
 The preparation of the Company’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated 
and are based on management’s experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require 
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
 
 
 In particular, the Company has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are 
required. Further information on each of these areas and how they impact the various accounting policies are described below 
and also in the relevant notes to the financial statements. Changes in estimates are accounted for prospectively.
 
 
Judgements
 
 
 In the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, which have 
the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements:
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
135
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
3a. Capital work-in-progress
Particulars
Building 
Construction
Plant & 
Machinery
Furniture& 
Fixtures
 Office 
Equipment 
 Dies & 
Moulds 
 
Computer 
 Total 
As at 1st April, 2021
 1,330.68 
 587.08 
 40.36 
 12.16 
 25.84 
 17.80 
 2,013.93 
Additions
 644.14 
 3,471.24 
 52.94 
 5.79 
 285.57 
 1.23 
 4,460.91 
Disposals / capitalizations
 1,675.92 
 2,305.77 
 69.45 
 14.92 
 311.10 
 19.02 
 4,396.18 
As at 31st March, 2022
 298.90 
 1,752.55 
 23.85 
 3.03 
 0.31 
 0.01 
 2,078.66 
Additions
 794.44 
 1,902.27 
 98.67 
 49.85 
 45.37 
 13.02 
 2,903.62 
Disposals / capitalizations
 994.68 
 2,882.34 
 120.52 
 52.29 
 27.69 
 13.03 
 4,090.55 
As at 31st March, 2023
 98.66 
 772.48 
 2.00 
 0.59 
 17.99 
 - 
 891.74 
a) 
Ageing of Capital work-in-progress as at 31.03.2023
Capital work-in-progress
 Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
Total
Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 891.74 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 891.74 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b) 
Ageing of Capital work-in-progress as at 31.03.2022
Capital work-in-progress
 Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
Total
Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 2,078.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,078.66 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4. 
Right of use assets
Particulars
 Leasehold Building 
 Vehicle 
Total
Lease liabilities
As at 1st April, 2021
Additions
 72.20 
 68.57 
 140.77 
 135.70 
Depreciation
 16.75 
 10.18 
 26.92 
 - 
Finance cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5.07 
Lease payments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (26.95)
As at 31st March, 2022
 55.45 
 58.40 
 113.85 
 113.82 
Additions
 - 
 18.87 
 18.87 
 18.87 
Depreciation
 24.07 
 24.43 
 48.50 
 - 
Finance cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 7.45 
Lease payments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (52.50)
As at 31st March, 2023
 31.38 
 52.84 
 84.22 
 87.65 
Non-current portion
 33.19 
Current portion
 54.46 
As at 31st March, 2023
 87.65 
Non-current portion
 66.66 
Current portion
 47.16 
As at 31st March, 2022
 113.82 
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 44.
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 7.55%.
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit & loss related to leases are as under:
Particulars
Year ended 31.03.2023
Year ended 31.03.2022
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 48.50 
 26.92 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 7.45 
 5.07 
Expense relating to short term and low value leases (included in other expenses)- 
Ref. Note 37
 20.99 
 11.78 
Total
 76.94 
 43.78 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
134
(` in lacs)
3. 
Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
 Land 
 Factory 
Building 
 Plant & 
Machinery 
 Furniture 
& fixtures 
 Vehicle 
 Office 
Equipment 
 Dies & 
Moulds 
 Computer 
 Total 
Cost 
As at 1st April, 
2021
2,159.27 
 9,479.15 
 17,387.61 
 721.66 
1,038.33 
 387.36  2,997.83 
 382.26  34,553.47 
Additions
 65.89 
 1,689.45 
 2,464.30 
 87.06 
 71.08 
 25.74  1,462.28 
 65.93 
 5,931.73 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 60.06 
 2.44 
 215.83 
 5.21 
 - 
 1.49 
 285.03 
Reclassification 
to Investment 
Prioperty
 14.89 
 186.29 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 201.18 
As at 31st 
March, 2022
2,210.27 
10,982.31 
 19,791.85 
 806.28 
 893.58 
 407.89  4,460.11 
 446.70  39,998.99 
Additions
 - 
 1,099.16 
 3,768.53 
 165.05 
 29.34 
 93.53 
 590.48 
 59.42 
 5,805.51 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 14.28 
 0.30 
 7.98 
 - 
 - 
 0.69 
 23.25 
As at 31st 
March, 2023
2,210.27 
12,081.47 
 23,546.10 
 971.03 
 914.94 
 501.42  5,050.59 
 505.43  45,781.25 
Depreciation
As at 1st April, 
2021
 48.46 
 1,541.68 
 7,150.73 
 280.35 
 553.03 
 279.23  1,365.42 
 279.25  11,498.15 
Depreciation 
charge for the 
year 2021-22
 21.06 
 352.01 
 1,690.25 
 69.08 
 128.49 
 38.05 
 314.11 
 32.81 
 2,645.86 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 45.26 
 0.66 
 153.72 
 3.55 
 - 
 0.81 
 204.00 
Reclassification 
to Investment 
Prioperty
 0.36 
 78.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 79.00 
As at 31st 
March, 2022
 69.16 
 1,815.05 
 8,795.72 
 348.77 
 527.80 
 313.73  1,679.53 
 311.25  13,861.01 
Depreciation 
charge for the 
year 2022-23
 21.06 
 400.85 
 1,844.60 
 77.21 
 83.76 
 32.97 
 182.94 
 41.67 
 2,685.06 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 13.56 
 0.29 
 5.57 
 - 
 - 
 0.65 
 20.07 
As at 31st 
March, 2023
 90.22 
 2,215.90 
 10,626.76 
 425.69 
 605.99 
 346.70  1,862.47 
 352.27  16,526.00 
Net book value
As at 31st 
March, 2023
2,120.05 
 9,865.57 
 12,919.34 
 545.34 
 308.95 
 154.72  3,188.12 
 153.16  29,255.25 
As at 31st 
March, 2022
2,141.11 
 9,167.26 
 10,996.13 
 457.51 
 365.78 
 94.16  2,780.58 
 135.45  26,137.98 
Note : Property, plant & equipment refer significant accounting policies note no 2.2b
(i) 
Additional disclosure / Regulatory Information as required by Notification no. GSR 207(E) dated 24.03.2021 
 
 I. 
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment during the year. 
 
 II.  The title deeds of all the immovable properties held by the Company (other than properties where the Company is the lessee 
and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) are held in the name of the Company.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
137
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
6. Other Intangible assets
Cost 
Software
Technical Know How
 Total 
As at 1st April, 2021
 514.46 
 1,379.98 
 1,894.45 
Additions
 36.93 
 152.07 
 189.00 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2022
 551.39 
 1,532.05 
 2,083.45 
Additions
 15.45 
 58.05 
 73.50 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 566.84 
 1,590.10 
 2,156.95 
Amortisation
As at 1st April, 2022
 279.04 
 926.95 
 1,205.99 
Amortization charge for the year 2022-2023
 69.00 
 135.55 
 204.55 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 348.04 
 1,062.50 
 1,410.54 
Net book value
As at 31st March, 2023
 218.80 
 527.60 
 746.41 
As at 31st March, 2022
 272.35 
 605.10 
 877.46 
6a. Intangible assets under development
Software
As at 1st April, 2021
 16.65 
Additions
 3.50 
Disposals / capitalizations
 20.15 
As at 31st March, 2022
 - 
Additions
 174.01 
Disposals / capitalizations
 1.33 
As at 31st March, 2023
 172.68 
a) Ageing of intangible assets under development as at 31.03.2023
Particulars
 Amount of intangible assets under development for a period of 
Total
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 172.68 
 - 
 - 
 -  172.68 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  
- 
b) Ageing of intangible assets under development as at 31.03.2022
Particulars
 Amount of intangible assets under development for a period of 
Total
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  
- 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  
- 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
136
 
(` in lacs)
5. Investment properties
 Land 
 Factory Building 
 Total 
Cost as at 1st April , 2021
 - 
 - 
 - 
Reclassification from Property, plant and equipment
 14.89 
 186.29 
 201.18 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2022
 14.89 
 186.29 
 201.18 
Depreciation
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 14.89 
 186.29 
 201.18 
Depreciation
As at 1st April , 2021
 - 
 - 
 - 
Reclassification from Property, plant and equipment
 0.36 
 78.64 
 79.00 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
Depreciation charge for the year 2021-22
 0.18 
 15.71 
 15.89 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2022
 0.54 
 94.35 
 94.90 
Depreciation charge for the year 2022-23
 0.18 
 15.71 
 15.89 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 0.72 
 110.07 
 110.79 
Net book value
As at 31st March, 2023
 14.17 
 76.23 
 90.39 
As at 31st March, 2022
 14.35 
 91.94 
 106.28 
(a) Amount recognised in profit and Loss for Investment Properties are as under:
(` in lacs)
Year ended 
31.03.2023
Year ended 
31.03.2022
Rental income
 45.91 
 13.20 
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) on properties generating rental 
income
 (1.55)
 (3.46)
Depreciation and Amortization
 15.89 
 15.89 
Direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) on properties not generating rental 
income
 - 
 - 
(b)  The Company has no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop Investment Properties or for repairs, maintenance 
and enhancements. There is no restrictions on the realisability of investment properties or the remittance of income and proceeds of 
disposal on the Company.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
139
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
8. Other financial assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
 As at 
31.03.2023
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Security Deposits
 216.79 
 182.54 
 - 
 - 
Bank deposits (having maturity more than 12 months)
 26.70 
 190.64 
 - 
 - 
Bank deposits with original maturity of more than three months but less 
than 12 months
 - 
 - 
 92.29 
 125.97 
Interest accrued on deposits
 - 
 - 
 35.18 
 3.10 
Insurance claim receivable
 - 
 - 
 43.77 
 42.70 
Share based Payments to employees of Subsidiary & Joint Venture
 - 
 - 
 2.78 
 - 
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss
Foreign exchange forward contracts not qualifying or not designated in 
hedge accounting relationships
 - 
 - 
 6.71 
 3.44 
Total
 243.49 
 373.18 
 180.73 
 175.21 
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss reflect the positive change in fair value of those foreign exchange forward 
contracts that are not designated in hedge relationships, but are, nevertheless, intended to reduce the level of foreign currency risk for 
expected sales and purchases.
Bank deposits (having maturity more than 12 months)
Bank deposits are held as security against letter of credit and bank guarantees.
9. Other non-current assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
Capital advances
 871.21 
 885.87 
Other non current assets
 72.20 
 145.27 
Total
 943.41 
 1,031.14 
10. Inventories
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Raw materials
 2,961.17 
 2,319.36 
Work-in-progress
 1,162.44 
 513.55 
Finished goods
 1,318.13 
 1,079.86 
Stores and spares
 365.18 
 372.22 
Goods in transit
 5.43 
 6.42 
Total 
 5,812.35 
 4,291.41 
Note:
For mode of valuation refer accounting policy number 2.2 (g)
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
138
 
(` in lacs)
7. Investments
 Non-current 
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
(a) Investments in equity shares of Subsidiaries at cost
Unquoted
PPAP Technology Limited (formerly PPAP Technology Private Limited and 
PPAP Automotive Technology Private Limited) 1,37,99,235 (31st March, 
2022: 62,99,985) equity shares of `10 each fully paid up
 1,379.92 
 1,379.92 
 - 
 - 
Elpis Components Distributors Priavate Limited (formerly PPAP Automotive 
Systems Private Limited 5,00,000 (31st March, 2022: 5,00,000) equity 
shares of `10 each fully paid up
 50.00 
 50.00 
 - 
 - 
Other Equity Investment- Fair Value of Financial Guarantee given for 
PPAP Technology Limited *
 21.36 
 21.36 
 - 
 - 
 1,451.28 
 1,451.28 
 - 
 - 
(b) Investment in equity shares of joint venture company at cost
Unquoted
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited 4,85,00,000 (31st March, 2022 : 
4,85,00,000) equity shares of `10 each fully paid up
 4,853.00 
 4,853.00 
 - 
 - 
 4,853.00 
 4,853.00 
 - 
 - 
Other Investments
(c) Investment in Preference Shares at fair value through profit or loss
Unquoted
0.001% Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of Motovolt Mobility 
Private Limited: 4,87,800 (March 31, 2022: Nil) Shares of ` 10 each fully 
paid up #
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(d) Investment in mutual fund at fair value through profit or loss
Quoted
ICICI Mutual Fund: 2,69,773.741 (March 31, 2022: 2,69,827.123) units
 - 
 - 
 63.70 
 60.50 
PGIM Flexi Cap: 26,138.897 (March 31, 2022: 9,157.73) units
 - 
 - 
 6.43 
 2.35 
ABSL Multicap: 51,895.347 (March 31, 2022: 17,204.56) units
 - 
 - 
 6.20 
 2.10 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual Fund: 3,29,56,490.22 (March 31, 2022: 
2,65,773.41) units
 - 
 - 
 338.77 
 195.45 
Canara Robecco Emerging Equities: 3964.579 (March 31, 2022: 1,520.03) 
units
 - 
 - 
 6.51 
 2.41 
Axis Midcap: 10079.176 (March 31, 2022: 3,616.94) units
 - 
 - 
 6.48 
 2.44 
SBI Contra: 3175.039 (March 31, 2022: 1,232.25) units
 - 
 - 
 7.19 
 2.46 
Mirae Asset Focused Equity:33551.121 (March 31, 2022: 10,647.51) units
 - 
 - 
 5.98 
 2.03 
HDFC Large And Midcap Fund: 1426.197 (March 31, 2022: Nil) units
 - 
 - 
 2.74 
 - 
Mahindra Manulife Multi Cap Badhat Yojana: 4882.258 (March 31, 2022: 
nil) units
 - 
 - 
 1.48 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 445.48 
 269.74 
Total
 6,504.28 
 6,304.28 
 445.48 
 269.74 
* Financial guarantees given to subsidiary was initially recognised at fair value will continue to be accounted as Other Equity 
Investment until the investment in subsidiary is derecognised or impaired.
# Cost treated as Fair value. These preference share are non cumulative. 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments
 6,504.28 
 6,304.28 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
141
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
12. Cash and cash equivalents
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022 
Balances with banks
On current accounts
 0.93 
 0.56 
Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 16.68 
 - 
Cash on hand
 23.71 
 22.50 
Total
 41.32 
 23.06 
For the purpose of statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprises the following:
Balance with banks 
 On current accounts 
 0.93 
 0.56 
 Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months 
 16.68 
 - 
 Cash on hand 
 23.71 
 22.50 
Total
 41.32 
 23.06 
13. Other balances with banks
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Bank Balance: unpaid dividend account (earmarked balances with banks)
 11.38 
 13.22 
Total
 11.38 
 13.22 
14. Loans
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022
Loans to related parties
(Considered good, unsecured)
 - 
 - 
Loan to subsidiary company
 1,472.65 
 750.51 
Other loans
(Unsecured, considered good)
Labour welfare receivable
 8.26 
 - 
Total
 1,480.91 
 750.51 
Loans are non-derivative financial assets which generate a fixed or variable interest income for the Company. The carrying value may be 
affected by changes in the credit risk of the counterparties.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
140
 
(` in lacs)
11. Trade receivables
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
Unsecured, considered good
 6,191.83 
 5,217.29 
Less: Provision for doubtful receivables
 0.69 
 1.75 
Total 
 6,191.14 
 5,215.54 
Trade receivables
As at 31.03.2023
Outstanding for following periods 
from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Other
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 5,510.20 
 645.80 
 34.55 
 1.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,191.83 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,510.20 
 645.80 
 34.55 
 1.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,191.83 
Trade receivables
As at 31.03.2022
Outstanding for following periods 
from due date of payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Other
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 4,395.31 
 671.61 
 150.38 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,217.29 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,395.31 
 671.61 
 150.38 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,217.29 
Trade receivables
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
Trade receivable are due from Directors or other officers of the Company either severally or 
jointly with any other person
 - 
 - 
Due from firms or private companies respectively in which any Director is a partner, a director 
or a member
 168.67 
 259.07 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
143
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
C. 
Following shareholders hold equity shares more than 5% of the total equity shares of the Company:
Name of Shareholder
As at  
31.03.2023
As at  
31.03.2022
Number of 
shares held
% of holding 
in class
Number of 
shares held
% of holding 
in class
Ajay Kumar Jain
 3,867,180 
27.62%
 3,867,180 
27.62%
Abhishek Jain
 1,002,404 
7.16%
 1,002,404 
7.16%
Kalindi Farms Private Limited
 3,200,000 
22.86%
 1,908,482 
13.63%
D. 
 Aggregate number and class of shares for a period of 5 years immediately preceding pursuant to contract(s) without 
payment being received in cash
Particulars
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Aggregate number and class of shares for a period of 5 years immediately preceding pursuant to 
contract(s) without payment being received in cash
Nil
Nil
E. 
Details of Promoter’s Shareholding
S. No.
Promoter’s Name
As at 31.03.2023
As at 31.03.2022
%age change 
during the 
year
 No. of 
Shares 
% of shares 
held
 No. of 
Shares 
% of shares 
held
1
Ajay Kumar Jain 
 3,867,180 
27.62%
 3,867,180 
27.62%
0.00%
2
Abhishek Jain 
 1,002,404 
7.16%
 1,002,404 
7.16%
0.00%
3
Vinay Kumari Jain
 533,890 
3.81%
 533,890 
3.81%
0.00%
4
Ajay Kumar Jain (HUF)
 90,123 
0.64%
 90,123 
0.64%
0.00%
5
Rashi Jain 
 45,540 
0.33%
 45,540 
0.33%
0.00%
6
Kalindi Farms Private Limited
 3,200,000 
22.86%
 1,908,482 
13.63%
67.67%
7
Sri Lehra Jewellers Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 557,463 
3.98%
-100%
8
Advance Commotrade Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 222,500 
1.59%
-100%
9
Littlestar Tradelinks Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 198,010 
1.41%
-100%
10
Prism Suppliers Private Limited 
 193,700 
1.38%
 193,700 
1.38%
0%
11
Smart Commotrade Private Limited
 168,030 
1.20%
 168,030 
1.20%
0%
12
Ratnakar Dealtrade Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 148,130 
1.06%
-100%
13
Nikunj Foods Private Limited
 - 
 - 
 146,445 
1.05%
-100%
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
142
 
(` in lacs)
15. Current tax assets (net)
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Income tax provision  
(net of provision for income tax ` 93.17 lakhs)
 113.82 
 123.78 
Total
 113.82 
 123.78 
16. Other current assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022
Advance to suppliers & contractors
 164.77 
 384.64 
Prepaid expenses
 256.44 
 194.10 
Balances with government authorities
 574.53 
 566.80 
Total
 995.74 
 1,145.54 
17. Equity share capital
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Authorized
2,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each (2,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each)
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Subscribed and fully paid up
1,40,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each (1,40,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each)
 1,400.00 
 1,400.00 
Total
 1,400.00 
 1,400.00 
A. 
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
As at  
31.03.2023
As at  
31.03.2022
No. of shares 
Amount 
No. of shares 
Amount 
At the beginning of the year
 1,40,00,000 
 1,400.00 
 1,40,00,000 
 1,400.00 
Issued during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 1,40,00,000 
 1,400.00 
 1,40,00,000 
 1,400.00 
B. 
Terms / Rights attached to equity shares
 
 The Company has only one class of equity share having face value of ` 10 per share. The holder of the equity shares is entitled to 
receive dividend as declared from time to time. The holder of share is entitled to voting rights proportionate to their share holding.
 
 In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive assets of the Company remaining 
after settlement of all liabilities. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
145
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
19. Borrowings
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Secured
Term loans
Term loan from banks
 8,002.35 
 7,111.54 
 - 
 - 
Term loan from financial institution
 393.97 
 760.18 
 499.71 
 809.38 
Vehicle loans
From banks
 83.45 
 106.77 
 - 
 - 
Less: Current maturities
 (1,761.08)
 (741.44)
 1,761.08 
 741.44 
Working capital loans from banks (refer note vi below)
 - 
 - 
 3,268.77 
 386.40 
Total
 6,718.69 
 7,237.05 
 5,529.56 
 1,937.22 
Terms of borrowings 
Type of loan
Loan outstanding 
MCLR/ 
Repo. Rate
Spread
Repayment terms
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
(% per 
annum)
(% per 
annum)
AXIS bank term loan
 648.15 
 870.37 
 5.90 
 2.90 Repayable in 54 monthly installment `18.52 lakhs each.
 1,906.11 
 2,190.00 
 5.90 
 2.90 Repayable in 54 monthly installment ` 40.56 lakhs each.
 269.81 
 - 
 5.90 
 2.90 Repayable in 54 monthly installment ` 5.74 lakhs each.
HDFC bank term 
loan
 990.45 
 1,350.00 
 8.65 
 0.45 Repayable in 20 quarterly installment `90.00 lakhs each.
 173.24 
 236.84 
 8.65 
 0.45 Repayable in 19 quarterly installment `15.79 lakhs each.
 2,000.00 
 - 
 8.65 
 0.45 Repayable in 18 quarterly installment `111.11 lakhs each.
HSBC bank term 
loan
 328.43 
 464.33 
 8.30 
 0.25 Repayable in 60 monthly installment `11.33 lakhs each.
 1,341.67 
 1,610.00 
 8.30 
 0.25 Repayable in 60 monthly installment `26.83 lakhs each.
 344.50 
 390.00 
 8.30 
 0.25 Repayable in 60 monthly installment `6.50 lakhs each.
Term loan from 
financial institution 
(PICUP)
 893.68 
 1,569.56 
 - 
 - Repayable in one installment after seven years from the 
date of disbursement i.e. 27.12.2016 for ` 499.71 lakhs, 
02.11.2018 for ` 432.99 lakhs and 30.03.2022 for ` 109.49 
lakhs.
Vehicle loans from 
banks
 83.45 
 106.77 
 7.35 % to 
8.35% per 
annum 
 - Repayable in equal monthly instalments of 1 to 60 months
Working capital 
loans from banks- 
see Note vi & vii
 3,268.77 
 386.40 
 see Note vii 
On demand
Note i: 
Term loans are secured by 1st charge on all movable assets (present and future) of the Company. Term loans are further secured by way 
of equitable mortgage on factory land and building of the Company situated at Kasna, Greater Noida. The charges are ranked pari-passu 
with the charges shared with other bankers.
Note ii:
Loan from State Owned Corporation, viz. The Pradeshiya Industrial & Investment Corporation of U.P. Limited is secured by bank 
guarantee equivalent to 100% of loan amount.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
144
 
(` in lacs)
18. Other equity
Amount
a) Securities premium
As at 1st April, 2021
 7,000.00 
Issue of equity shares
 - 
As at 31st March, 2022
 7,000.00 
Issue of equity shares
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 7,000.00 
b) Actuarial gains / losses on defined benefit employee obligations
As at 1st April, 2021
 (53.11)
Other comprehensive income for the period
 (11.58)
As at 31st March, 2022
 (64.69)
Other comprehensive income for the period
 (14.99)
As at 31st March, 2023
 (79.68)
c) Employee Stock Options reserve
As at 1st April, 2022
 - 
Employee Stock Options reserve for the period
 48.76 
As at 31st March, 2023
 48.76 
d) General reserve
As at 1st April, 2021
 1,158.95 
Add: Transferred from retained earnings
 - 
As at 31st March, 2022
 1,158.95 
Add: Transferred from retained earnings
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 1,158.95 
e) Retained earnings
As at 1st April, 2021
 21,471.23 
Profit for the period
 458.82 
Less: Final dividend paid
 (140.00)
As at 31st March, 2022
 21,790.05 
Profit for the period
 681.02 
Less: Final dividend paid
 (350.00)
As at 31st March, 2023
 22,121.07 
Total other equity
As at 31st March, 2023
 30,249.10 
As at 31st March, 2022
 29,884.31 
Nature and purpose of reserves
a) 
Securities premium
 
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in securities premium.
b) 
Actuarial gains / losses on defined benefit employee obligations
 
 The amount of actuarial gains / losses recognised on post employment defined benefit employee obligations till date. Actuarial gains 
/ losses are differences between any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in actuarial assumptions or experience 
adjustments within the plans which are recognised in ‘other comprehensive income’ and subsequently not reclassified to the statement 
of profit and loss. 
c) 
Employee Stock Options reserve 
 
 The Company has share option scheme under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to certain 
executives and senior employees.
 
 The employee stock options reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees, 
including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer Note 36 for further details of these plans.
d) 
General reserve
 
 The Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company before declaring dividend to general reserve pursuant to the 
earlier provision of Companies Act, 1956. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013.
e) 
Retained earnings
 
 Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve, dividends or other 
distributions paid to investors.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
147
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
20. Other financial liabilities
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022 
Security deposits
 4.03 
 4.03 
 44.18 
 44.21 
Interest accrued on borrowings
 - 
 - 
 43.06 
 18.07 
Creditors for expenses
 - 
 - 
 457.25 
 505.16 
Unclaimed dividends
 - 
 - 
 10.82 
 12.67 
Fair Value of Financial Guarantee given
 15.25 
 18.38 
 - 
 - 
Total
 19.28 
 22.41 
 555.31 
 580.11 
 
(` in lacs)
21. Provisions
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity
 424.41 
 487.51 
 74.07 
 66.62 
Provision for compensated absences (Refer note 35 for Ind AS 19 
disclosures)
 153.86 
 138.89 
 25.24 
 18.20 
Total
 578.27 
 626.40 
 99.31 
 84.82 
22. Income Taxes
 
 The major components of income tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022 are:
 
A. 
Statement of profit and loss
 
(i) 
Profit & loss section 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022
Current income tax charge
 93.17 
 109.16 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year
 44.12 
 36.55 
Deferred tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 83.01 
 6.67 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit & loss 
 220.30 
 152.38 
 
(ii) OCI section
 
 
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022 
Net (loss) / gain on remeasurements of defined benefit plans 
 5.04 
 3.89 
Income tax charged to OCI
 5.04 
 3.89 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
146
 
(` in lacs)
Note iii:
Secured by way of hypothecation of vehicles.
Note iv:
The Company has satisfied all the loan covenants.
Note v:
The Company has used the loans for the purpose for which these were taken.
Note vi:
Secured by hypothecation of inventories, book debts, other current assets, factory land and building situated at at B-206A, Sector-81, 
Phase-II, Noida.
Note vii:
Bank
Facility
 Limit
MCLR / Repo. Rate (% per annum)
Spread (% per annum)
HSBC Bank
CC
 2,100.00 
8.35
 0.85 
HDFC Bank
CC
 1,800.00 
8.20
 - 
ICICI Bank
CC
 2,200.00 
8.35
 0.10 
Axis Bank
CC
 100.00 
8.90
 - 
Details submitted in quarterly yearly statement with the bankers vs books of accounts
Particulars 
Period
Amount 
as per 
Financials 
Amount 
filed with 
Bankers
Difference
Period
Amount 
as per 
Financials 
Amount 
filed with 
Bankers
Difference
Eligible 
Trade 
Receivables
31.03.2023
 6,191.14 
 6,191.14 
 - 30.09.2022
  5532.00 
 5,532.00 
 - 
Eligible Inventories
31.03.2023
 5,812.35 
 5,812.35 
 - 30.09.2022
 5535.47
5535.47
 -
Other Current Assets 
reported to banks
31.03.2023
 1,176.47 
 1,176.47 
 - 30.09.2022
 1439.67
1439.67
 -
Any Other Financial 
Information 
reported 
to banks in quarterly 
returns
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 30.09.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
149
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
23. Trade payables
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
 total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
 1,022.79 
 641.97 
 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises
 5,194.56 
 4,044.29 
Total
 6,217.35 
 4,686.26 
Trade payables
As at 31.03.2023
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Not due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Other
Total
(i) MSME
 727.53 
 295.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,022.79 
(ii) Others
 3,612.18 
 1,582.39 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  5,194.56 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,339.71 
 1,877.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  6,217.35 
Trade payables
As at 31.03.2022
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Not due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Other
Total
(i) MSME
 641.97 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 641.97 
(ii) Others
 2,684.47 
 1,329.36 
 30.46 
 - 
 - 
 -  4,044.29 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 3,326.44 
 1,329.36 
 30.46 
 - 
 - 
 -  4,686.26 
24. Other current liabilities
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Advance from customers
 1,376.81 
 1,171.08 
Advance to staff
 5.75 
 11.64 
Statutory dues payable
 582.29 
 568.30 
Total
 1,964.85 
 1,751.02 
25. Revenue from operations
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Sale of products
Automotive parts
 45,987.20 
 37,803.93 
Moulds
 3,181.78 
 2,605.21 
 49,168.98 
 40,409.14 
Other operating revenue
GST subsidy
 63.19 
 463.49 
Investment subsidy on employment
 - 
 34.58 
Total 
 49,232.17 
 40,907.21 
Performance obligations and remaining performance obligations
The remaining performance obligations disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as at the 
end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the Company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue. The Company 
does not have any remaining performance obligations as at 31st March, 2023 (31st March, 2022: Nil). 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
148
 
(` in lacs)
 
B. 
 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for financial year ended 
31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022.
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022
Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations 
 901.32 
 611.20 
Profit / (loss) before tax from a discontinued operation
 - 
 - 
Accounting profit before income tax 
 901.32 
 611.20 
At India’s statutory income tax rate of 25.168% (31st March, 2022: 25.168%)
 226.85 
 153.83 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 
 44.12 
 36.55 
Net disallowances on which deferred tax is not recognised
 8.10 
 4.83 
Exempted income / deductions
 (18.25)
 (14.95)
Incremental deferred tax on account of financial assets and other items
 (40.51)
 (27.88)
 220.30 
 152.38 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 220.30 
 152.38 
 220.30 
 152.38 
 
C. 
Deferred tax
 
 
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Particulars
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and 
loss / OCI
 As at 
31.03.2023
 As at 
31.03.2022
 Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 
 986.54 
 835.80 
 (150.76)
 (50.99)
Provision for gratuity & leave encashment
 (257.72)
 (229.92)
 27.80 
 11.06 
Present valuation of borrowings & other items of temporary differences
 56.55 
 101.54 
 44.99 
 37.15 
Deferred tax (expense) / income
 (77.97)
 (2.78)
Net deferred tax (assets) / liabilities
 785.37 
 707.42 
Reflected in the balance sheet as follows: 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Deferred tax assets
 (257.72)
 (229.92)
Deferred tax liabilities
 1,043.09 
 937.34 
Deferred tax liabilities, net 
 785.37 
 707.42 
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net)
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Opening balance
 707.42 
 704.64 
Tax (income) / expense during the period recognized in profit & loss
 83.01 
 6.67 
Tax (income) / expense during the period recognized in OCI
 (5.06)
 (3.89)
Closing balance
 785.37 
 707.42 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
151
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
30. Finance costs
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Interest expense
 1,022.38 
 593.23 
Interest on lease liabilities
 7.45 
 5.07 
Total
 1,029.83 
 598.30 
31. Depreciation and amortization expense
 Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment (refer note 3)
 2,685.06 
 2,645.84 
Depreciation of Right of Use Assets (refer note 4)
 48.50 
 26.92 
Depreciation of Investment Properties (refer note 5)
 15.89 
 15.89 
Amortization of Intangible Assets (refer note 6)
 204.55 
 206.44 
Total
 2,954.00 
 2,895.09 
32. Other expenses
 Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Other manufacturing expenses
Stores and spares consumed
 302.40 
 221.33 
Power and fuel
 1,297.34 
 902.28 
Factory expenses
 316.09 
 221.52 
Repair & maintenance
Building
 105.18 
 52.63 
Machinery
 377.20 
 413.26 
Others
 253.29 
 156.50 
Administrative and other expenses
Rent
 20.99 
 11.78 
Rates & taxes
 29.76 
 10.02 
Listing expenses
 5.60 
 2.50 
Postage & telephone expenses
 39.56 
 40.31 
Printing & stationery
 60.69 
 78.32 
Traveling & conveyance expenses
 659.23 
 480.50 
Office electricity & water
 10.20 
 6.87 
Insurance charges
 192.56 
 185.06 
Factory security 
 133.34 
 130.47 
Foreign exchange loss
 59.81 
 - 
Foreign exchange hedging loss
 - 
 2.26 
Legal & professional charges
 370.04 
 462.74 
Motor car expenses
 25.42 
 25.46 
Bank charges
 26.78 
 44.30 
Fees & subscription
 42.23 
 30.99 
Corporate social responsibility expenses (refer note 52)
 60.94 
 59.00 
Directors sitting fees
 20.80 
 19.20 
Payment to collaborators / royalty
 299.21 
 278.28 
Charity & donation
 0.40 
 - 
Miscellaneous expenses
 121.50 
 110.82 
Auditors' remuneration 
As audit fees
 8.45 
 8.45 
For tax audit, certification & tax representations
 3.51 
 7.06 
Selling & distribution expenses
Freight & forwarding expenses
 1,804.98 
 1,335.71 
Advertisement, publicity & sales promotion
 40.75 
 35.38 
Total
 6,688.26 
 5,333.00 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
150
 
(` in lacs)
26. Other income
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Other non operating income 
Interest income
 233.18 
 82.81 
Profit on sale of investment
 12.10 
 0.07 
Gain on fair valuation of current investments
 1.65 
 4.17 
Foreign exchange gain
 - 
 38.54 
Rent received
 68.25 
 52.06 
Unclaimed balances written off
 5.69 
 9.64 
Hedging gain
 1.61 
 - 
Allowance for credit loss (net)
 1.06 
 1.30 
Discount and short recovery
 1.47 
 - 
Guarantee/ Commission Income
 4.73 
 4.88 
Miscellaneous income
 - 
 6.18 
Total
 329.74 
 199.65 
27. Cost of materials consumed
Year Ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Raw material
 28,258.51 
 22,075.74 
Dyes & chemicals
 281.34 
 195.71 
Packing material
 944.86 
 635.23 
Steel
 508.77 
 653.96 
Dies & molds
 977.97 
 815.26 
Total 
 30,971.45 
 24,375.90 
28. Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock in trade and work-in-progress
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress
 513.55 
 346.04 
Work-in-progress of inhouse manufactured molds
 - 
 755.44 
Finished goods
 1,079.85 
 824.10 
Total inventories at the beginning of the year (A)
 1,593.40 
 1,925.58 
Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress
 1,162.44 
 513.55 
Finished goods
 1,318.12 
 1,079.85 
Total inventories at the end of the year (B)
 2,480.56 
 1,593.40 
Total (A-B)
 (887.16)
 332.18 
29. Employee benefits expense
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Salaries and wages
 6,942.53 
 6,259.00 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 324.90 
 317.66 
Staff welfare expenses
 636.78 
 384.54 
Total
 7,904.21 
 6,961.20 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
153
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
35. Employee benefit plans
 
Defined contribution plans - general description
 
 Retirement benefits in the form of provident fund, superannuation fund and national pension scheme are defined contribution 
schemes. The Company has no obligation, other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The Company’s contribution to 
the provident fund is ` 265.04 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 257.13 lakhs).
 
Defined benefit plans - general description
 
Gratuity:
 
 The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Gratuity is computed as 15 days salary, for every completed year of service or part 
thereof in excess of 6 months and is payable on retirement / termination / resignation. The benefit vests on the employee completing 
5 years of service. The Company makes provision of such gratuity asset / liability in the books of accounts on the basis of actuarial 
valuation as per the projected unit credit method.
 
 The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit & loss and 
the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the gratuity plan:
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
 883.33 
 832.04 
Current service cost
 77.82 
 73.50 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
Interest cost
 63.42 
 56.58 
Benefits paid
 (70.23)
 (104.16)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligations-OCI
 17.47 
 25.37 
Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
 971.81 
 883.33 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 329.19 
 160.29 
Contribution by employer
 166.00 
 159.00 
Benefits paid
 (19.29)
 - 
Expected interest income on plan assets
 - 
 - 
Actual gain / (loss) on plan asset
 16.73 
 9.90 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 492.63 
 329.19 
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets and defined benefit obligation
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Fair value of plan assets
 492.63 
 329.19 
Defined benefit obligation
 971.81 
 883.33 
Amount recognised in the balance sheet
 479.18 
 554.14 
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Current service cost
 77.82 
 73.50 
Net interest expense
 39.79 
 45.68 
Past service cost
 - 
 - 
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 117.61 
 119.18 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
152
(` in lacs)
33. Components of other comprehensive income (OCI)
 
 The disaggregation of changes to OCI by each type of reserve in equity is shown below:
During the year ended 31st March, 2023
Actuarial gains / losses on defined 
benefit employee obligations
Total
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans 
 (20.03)
 (20.03)
Income tax effect
 5.04 
 5.04 
Total
 (14.99)
 (14.99)
During the year ended 31st March, 2022
Actuarial gains / losses on defined 
benefit employee obligations
Total
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans 
 (15.47)
 (15.47)
Income tax effect
 3.89 
 3.89 
Total
 (11.58)
 (11.58)
34. Earnings Per Share (EPS)
 
 Basic and Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS are calculated by dividing the profit for the year 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company by weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year plus the 
weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity 
shares.
 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2023
Year ended 
31.03.2022
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for basic earnings for the year
 681.02 
 458.82 
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for basic earnings for the year
 681.02 
 458.82 
No. of Shares
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic earnings per share
 14,000,000 
 14,000,000 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted earnings per share (refer 
note below)
 14,084,797 
 14,000,000 
Earnings per equity share 
Basic (in `)
 4.86 
 3.28 
Diluted (in `)
 4.84 
 3.28 
Note: Weighted average number of equity shares used as denominator
No. of Shares
Weighted average number of equity shares used as denominator in calculating basic earnings 
per shares
 14,000,000 
 14,000,000 
Adjustments for calculation of diluted earnings per share:
Oustanding employee stock options (For details relating to stock options, refer note 36)
 84,797 
 - 
Weighted average number of equity shares and potential equity shares used as denominator in 
calculating diluted earnings per share
 14,084,797 
 14,000,000 
Face value of each equity share (in `)
10 
10 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted EPS
 14,084,797 
 14,000,000 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
155
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
36. Employee Share-based Payments
 
 Refer Note 2.2 k for accounting policy on Employee Share-based Payments. 
 
 The Company has formulated employee share-based payment schemes with the objective to reward the employees for their 
association and performance, to motivate them to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Company, to create a variable pay 
structure for the different employees, incentivize them in line with Company’s performance, to retain and motivate senior and critical 
human resources, to promote loyalty to the Company and to achieve sustained growth and create shareholder’s value by aligning 
the interests of the employees with the long-term interests of the Company
 
 The shareholders of the Company by way of special resolution dated 16th September, 2022 approved the Plan authorizing the 
Committee to Grant not exceeding 7,00,000 Options to the eligible Employees in one or more tranches, from time to time, which in 
aggregate shall be exercisable into not more than 7,00,000 Shares of face value of ` 10 each fully paid up (which is 5% of the paid 
up capital of the Company as on date), with each such Option conferring a right upon the Employees to apply for one Share in the 
Company in accordance with the terms and conditions as may be decided under the Plan.
 
 The maximum number of Options that may be granted per Employee and in aggregate shall be decided by the Committee depending 
upon the designation and the appraisal/ assessment process. However, the Grant of Options to identified Employees, shall not, at 
any time exceed the total Option pool size approved by the shareholders for ESOP 2022.
 
 This Employee Stock Option Plan is called ‘PPAP Employee Stock Option Plan 2022’ (“ESOP 2022”/ “Plan”) : The ESOP 2022 is 
established with effect from date of shareholders’ approval i.e. 16th September, 2022 on which the shareholders of the Company have 
approved it and shall continue to be in force until (i) its termination by the Board/ Committee as per provisions of Applicable Laws, 
or (ii) the date on which all of the Options available for issuance under the ESOP 2022 have been issued and exercised, whichever 
is earlier.
 
 The fair value at grant date of stock options granted during the year ended 31/03/2022 was ` 196.60 . The fair valuation has been 
carried out by an independent valuer by applying Black and Scholes Model. The inputs to the model include the exercise price, the 
term of option, the share price at grant date and the expected volatility, expected dividends and the risk free rate of interest for terms 
of options. The details of options granted, the key assumptions for Fair Value on the date of grant are as under:
Particulars
ESOP 2022
Grant Date
12.11.2022
Vesting period
 18 months 
Share price on grant date (`)
 205.50 
Risk free interest rate (zero-coupon government issues of the country with a remaining 
term equal to the expected term of the option)
7.51%
Dividend Yield
0.73%
Expected Volatility (Standard Deviation) The measure of volatility used in the Black 
Scholes options Pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return on the company's share over life of the options
42.05%
Fair Value of option on grant date
 196.60 
Average time to maturity of option
 1.75 
Exercise Price
 10 
Options outstanding at beginning of the year
 - 
Options granted during the year
 89,288 
Options forfeited/ lapsed during the year
 - 
Options vested during the year
 - 
Options exercised during the year
 - 
Options expired during the year
 - 
Options outstanding at year end
 89,288 
Options vested and exercisable at year end
 - 
Vesting conditions
 As per policy approved by shareholders 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
154
 
(` in lacs)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 (16.73)
 (11.09)
Remeasurement return on plan assets excluding amount included in interest income
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gain) / loss arising from experience adjustments
 34.20 
 36.46 
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 17.47 
 25.37 
 
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity liability for the Company’s plans are shown below:
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Discount rate
7.36%
7.18%
Expected rate of return on plan assets
7.36%
7.18%
Future salary increases
5.25%
5.25%
Attrition rate (up to 30 years)
3.00%
3.00%
Attrition rate (from 31 to 44 years)
2.00%
2.00%
Attrition rate (above 44 years)
1.00%
1.00%
Retirement age
58 years
58 years
 
 A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at 31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022 is as shown below:
Gratuity plan
Sensitivity level
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Assumptions
Discount rate
+0.50%
+0.50%
 (44.65)
 (41.51)
-0.50%
-0.50%
 48.02 
 44.73 
Future salary increases
+0.50%
+0.50%
 48.12 
 44.89 
-0.50%
-0.50%
 (45.28)
 (41.99)
 
 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation 
as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. Sensitivities due to mortality and 
withdrawals are insignificant and hence ignored. Sensitivities as to rate of inflation, rate of increase of pensions in payments, rate of 
increase of pensions before retirement & life expectancy are not applicable being a lump sum benefit on retirement.
 
Company’s best estimate of expense for the next Annual reporting period is ` 127.30 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 123.96 lakhs).
The expected maturity analysis of undiscounted gratuity is as follows:
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period) 
74.07
66.68
Between 1 to 2 years
20.36
42.47
Between 2 to 3 years
39.94
23.69
Between 3 to 4 years
53.23
35.32
Between 4 to 5 years
40.58
44.34
Between 5 to 6 years
46.88
36.39
Over 6 years
696.75
634.44
Total expected payments 
 971.81 
 883.33 
 
 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 16.42 years (31st March, 
2022: 16.44 years)
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
157
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
39. Contingent liabilities
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Contingent liabilities not provided for in respect of
Letters of guarantees
 1,593.94 
 2,832.00 
Letters of credit 
 - 
 171.30 
Income tax appeal 
For assessment year 2017-18
 41.37 
 41.37 
GST appeals (includes excise and sales tax demands)
 73.27 
 114.10 
Show Cause Notice for short payment of excise duty
 18.95 
 410.05 
Demand towards delay in commencement of production along with stipulated investment Company's 
plant at Pathredi claimed by Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (RIICO)
 - 
 103.57 
Total
 1,727.53 
 3,672.39 
Notes:
(i) 
 A demand of ` 41.37 lakhs has been raised for the assessment year 2017-18 for disallowance of 25% of royalty expense.The 
company has filed an appeal before Hon’ble CIT(Appeals) against the order of disallowance of the royalty amount.
(ii) 
 The Central sales tax assessment for the assessment year 2004-05 was completed and a balance demand of ` 0.45 lakhs was 
raised by the department. Appeal against the same is pending before the Joint Commissioner of Sales Tax (Appeals) and stay 
granted vide order no F/PA/Jt. Comm. (KDU) /02/Stay/ 410-411 dated 18.08.06.
(iii) 
 The Joint commissioner, Commercial Tax,Noida has demanded CST of `5.24 lakhs on stock transfers of iron and steel for job work 
got done during the A.Y. 2011-12. We have filed an appeal before the Additional Commissioner (Appeals) against the said demand. 
The Additional Commissioner (Appeals) has granted stay of 50% of the said demand. We have filed an appeal against the order 
of Additional Commissioner (Appeals) before Commercial Tax, Tribunal (Noida, U.P.). The Tribunal has set aside the demand and 
passed the order on 17th February, 2023 in favour of the Company and directed the Dept. to refund the deposited amount.
(iv) 
 The Joint Commissioner,Commercial Tax, Noida has demanded `31.16 lakhs towards shortfall of Form ‘C ‘ and `4.43 lakhs 
towards CST on stock transfers of iron and steel for job work got done for the A.Y. 2012-13. We filed an appeal before the 
Additional Commissioner (Appeals), against the said demand. The Additional Commissioner (Appeals) granted stay of 50% 
of the total demand. We have filed an appeal against the order of Additional Commissioner (Appeals) before Commercial Tax 
Tribunal, Noida, U.P..The Tribunal has set aside the demand and passed the order on 29th March, 2023 in favour of the Company 
and directed the Dept. to refund the deposited amount.
(v) 
 Demand of excise duty of ` 1.06 lakhs along with penalty of ` 1.06 lakhs was imposed on the Company by Additional 
Commissioner, Central Excise, Delhi, for cenvat credit taken on payment of duty through DEPB license, under the Central 
Excise Act, 1944. The Company had filed an appeal against the aforesaid order with Commissioner of Central Excise, Okhla. The 
Commissioner of central excise has rejected the appeal. Thereafter, the Company has filed the appeal with the Central Excise 
& Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) and the appeal is pending.
(vi) 
 Demand of excise duty of ` 35.36 lakhs along with penalty of ` 35.36 lakhs was imposed on the Company by Additional 
Commissioner, Central Excise, Delhi, for cenvat credit taken on payment of duty through DEPB license, under the Central Excise 
Act, 1944 and was outstanding as on 31.03.2016.The Company had filed the appeal with the Central Excise & Service Tax 
Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) and CESTAT has decided the case in favour of Company and set aside the demand. The Company 
approached the Delhi High Court against the order of CESTAT and the High Court has remanded the case back to CESTAT for 
hearing it again. The matter is pending in CESTAT, Delhi.
(vii) 
 The Company has received show cause notice dated 12.03.2019 from Directorate General of Goods and Service Tax Intelligence, 
Gurugram, Zonal Unit, alleging short payment of central excise duty (including education cess and S & H cess) to the tune of `410.05 
lakhs for the period F.Y. 2013-14 to 30.06.2019 on the value of design / drawings / specifications supplied by Maruti Suzuki India 
Limited on FOC basis to the Company. `384.57 lakhs relates to B-45, B-206A and B-4, Kasna, Uttar Pradesh Plants and `25.47 
lakhs relates to Pathredi plant. However, the jurisdiction of the case has been transferred from Gurugram, Haryana to the Additional 
Director General (Adjudiaction) DGGSTI, New Delhi on 26.07.2019.The Company has disputed the matter and filed the reply with 
the Additional Director General (Adjudication) of Goods & Service Tax Intelligence, New Delhi on 26.02.2021 to quash the notice. 
Being considered the reply, the Additional Director General (Adjudication), New Delhi has passed an order no.48-67/2022-CE dated 
29-07-2022 and dropped the demand of `366.72 Lakhs for our B-45, B-206A & B-4, Kasna, U.P. Plants and also dropped the 
demand of `24.37 lakhs for our Pathredi Plant. Further, the Company has challenged the remaining demand of `17.85 lakhs for our 
U.P. Plants and `1.10 lakhs for our Pathredi Plant and filed an appeal before the Central Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(CESTAT), R K Puram, New Delhi on 15th November, 2022. The matter is pending in CESTAT, New Delhi.
(viii)  RIICO has raised a demand of `103.57 lakhs towards additional cost of land due to delay in commencement of production 
activities at its plant at Pathredi. The Company had disputed the matter with RIICO. This demand has been settled availing the 
amnesty scheme of RIICO.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
156
 
(` in lacs)
37. Leases
 
Operating leases taken
 
 The Company has taken certain building on operating lease arrangements. The lease expense recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss is ` 20.99 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 11.78 lakhs). The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases are as follows:
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Not later than one year
 10.78 
 6.93 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 - 
 - 
Later than five years
 - 
 - 
 10.78 
 6.93 
 
Operating leases given
 
 The Company has given certain properties on operating lease arrangements. The lease income recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss is ` 68.25 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 52.06 lakhs). The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases are as follows:
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Not later than one year
 68.25 
 48.31 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 - 
 - 
Later than five years
 - 
 - 
 68.25 
 48.31 
38. Commitments
 
(i) 
 Retention charges and capital commitments (net of advances) are ` 473.64 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 417.34 lakhs)
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
159
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
Net outstanding balance:
Related Party
Period
Related Parties 
where common 
control exists
Joint 
Ventures
Wholly 
Owned 
Subsidiaries
Other Related Party- Post 
employment benefit plan 
of the Company
Total
Trade receivable
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 67.32 
 - 
 67.32 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Elpis Components Distributors Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 177.51 
 - 
 177.51 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 259.07 
 - 
 259.07 
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 16.84 
 - 
 16.84 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payable
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
31.03.2022
 - 
 72.19 
 - 
 - 
 72.19 
Security Deposit Received
Elpis Components Distributors Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 2.93 
 - 
 2.93 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 2.93 
 - 
 2.93 
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 1.10 
 - 
 1.10 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 1.10 
 - 
 1.10 
Loan given
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 1,472.65 
 - 
1,472.65 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 750.51 
 - 
 750.51 
Contribution 
to 
fund: 
Employer's 
contribution towards gratuity fund
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group 
Gratuity Fund Trust
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 465.71 
 465.71 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 319.00 
 319.00 
Details relating to remuneration of KMP & their relatives
Name of KMP
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Short-term employee benefits
Sitting fees
Short-term employee benefits
Sitting fees
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
 120.57 
 - 
 120.57 
 - 
Mr. Abhishek Jain
 74.77 
 - 
 127.77 
 - 
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
 3.20 
 - 
 4.80 
Details relating to remuneration of KMP other than MD / Manager / Whole Time Director
Name of KMP
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Short-term employee benefits
Sitting fees
Short-term employee benefits
Sitting fees
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi
 - 
 6.40 
 - 
 6.00 
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
 - 
 6.00 
 - 
 6.00 
Mrs. Celine George
 - 
 4.00 
 - 
 2.40 
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
 - 
 1.20 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
158
 
(` in lacs)
40. Related party disclosures
 
A. 
List of related parties
(a) Joint Venture
1.
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
(b) Key Management Personnel (KMP)
1
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman & Managing Director
2
Mr. Abhishek Jain, CEO & Managing Director
3
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi, Independent Director
4
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta, Independent Director
5
Mrs. Celine George, Independent Director
6
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, Non-Executive Director
7
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi, Independent Director (w.e.f 04.02.2023)
8
Mr. Sachin Jain, Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f 10.05.2021)
9
Mrs. Sonia Bhandari, Company Secretary (upto 18.09.2021)
10
Mrs Shivani Sehgal, Company Secretary (w.e.f 12.11.21 to 25.04.2022)
11
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal, Company Secretary (w.e.f 13.05.2022)
(c)  Related Parties in the group where common control exists
1.
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation
(d) Wholly owned subsidiaries
1.
Elpis Components Distributors Private Limited
2.
PPAP Technology Limited
(e)  Other Related Party-Post employment benefit plan of the Company
1.
 PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group Gratuity Fund Trust
 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties in the ordinary course of business:
Related party transactions
Period
Related Parties 
where common 
control exists
Joint 
Ventures
Wholly 
Owned 
Subsidiaries
Other Related Party-Post 
employment benefit plan 
of the Company
Total
CSR expenses paid
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation
31.03.2023
 60.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60.94 
31.03.2022
 59.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 59.00 
Material / licence purchases 
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 1.56 
 - 
 1.56 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 0.52 
 - 
 0.52 
Elpis Components Distributors Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 7.59 
 - 
 7.59 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 563.99 
 - 
 563.99 
31.03.2022
 - 
 621.23 
 - 
 621.23 
Investment in equity shares
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 749.93 
 - 
 749.93 
Loan given
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 2,414.35 
 - 
 
2,414.35 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 3,255.67 
 - 
 
3,255.67 
Loan repayment received
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 1,853.95 
 - 
 
1,853.95 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 2,505.69 
 - 
 
2,505.69 
Receipts for other services*
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 120.77 
 - 
 - 
 120.77 
31.03.2022
 - 
 116.94 
 - 
 - 
 116.94 
Elpis Components Distributors Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 9.00 
 - 
 9.00 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 35.11 
 - 
 35.11 
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 226.20 
 - 
 226.20 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 13.20 
 - 
 13.20 
Sales
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 172.06 
 - 
 172.06 
31.03.2022
 - 
 113.40 
 - 
 - 
 113.40 
Elpis Components Distributors Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 1,123.73 
 - 
 
1,123.73 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 720.17 
 - 
 720.17 
Contribution to fund: Employer's contribution 
towards gratuity fund
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group 
Gratuity Fund Trust
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 166.00 
 166.00 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.00 
 159.00 
*Other services include management support fee, reimbursement of expenses, job work charges, interest received on loan given and rental income.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
161
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
43. Fair values measurements
 
(i) 
Financial instruments by category
Particulars
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
FVTPL
Amortized 
cost
FVTPL
Amortized 
cost
Financial assets
Investments*
 - in equity instruments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - in mutual funds
 445.48 
 - 
 269.74 
 - 
 - in unquoted preference shares
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial assets
 - 
 1,905.13 
 - 
 1,298.90 
Trade receivables
 - 
 6,191.14 
 - 
 5,215.54 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 41.32 
 - 
 23.06 
Other balances with banks
 - 
 11.38 
 - 
 13.22 
Loans
 - 
 1,480.91 
 - 
 750.51 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 6.71 
 - 
 3.44 
 - 
Total financial assets
 6.71 
 9,629.88 
 273.18 
 7,301.23 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings (non current)
 - 
 6,718.69 
 - 
 7,237.05 
Borrowings (current)
 - 
 5,529.56 
 - 
 1,937.22 
Lease Liabilities
 - 
 87.65 
 - 
 113.82 
Trade payables
 - 
 6,217.35 
 - 
 4,686.26 
Other financial liabilities (non current)
 - 
 19.28 
 - 
 22.41 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 - 
 555.31 
 - 
 580.11 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 19,127.84 
 - 
 14,576.87 
*Investment value excludes investment in joint venture of ` 4,853 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 4,853 lakhs) and investment in 
wholly owned subsidiary companies of `1429.92 lakhs (31st March, 2022 `1,429.92 lakhs) which are shown at cost in balance 
sheet as per Ind AS 27 ‘ Separate Financial Statements’.
i) 
 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a 
current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and assumptions 
were used to estimate the fair value
ii) 
 The fair values of the Company’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using effective interest rate (EIR) method 
using discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance 
risk as at 31st March, 2023 was assessed to be insignificant.
iii) 
 Long-term receivables/payables are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, 
individual creditworthiness of the counterparty and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, 
allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables.
iv)  The fair value of security deposit has been estimated using DCF model which consider certain assumptions viz. forecast cash 
flows, discount rate, credit risk and volatility.
v) 
 The fair values of the investment in mutual fund has been determined based on net assets value (NAV) available in open 
market.
vi) The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
vii)  Cost of unquoted preference shares has been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because of a wide range 
of possible fair value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range. These investments 
in preference shares are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long-term strategic purpose.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
160
 
(` in lacs)
41. Segment information
 
 According to Ind AS 108, identification of operating segments is based on Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) approach for 
making decisions about allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance. Based on the consideration of dominant 
sources and nature of risk & returns, the company is considered an automotive components manufacturer. Most of the activities are 
revolving around this business and accordingly has only one reportable segment. The geographical location of its main operations 
and the internal organization / reporting and management structure supports such treatment. 
 
 
 
42. Dues to micro and small enterprises
 
 The dues to micro and small enterprises as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(MSMED Act, 2006), to the extent information available with the Company is given below:
Particulars
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
(i)
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at 
the end of each accounting year:
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
 1,022.79 
 641.97 
Interest due on above
 - 
 - 
(ii)
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(iii)
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
(iv)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(v)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for 
the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the MSMED 
Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
163
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
44. Financial risk management objectives and policies
 
 The Company’s principal financial liabilities, comprise borrowings, trade payables, and creditors for expenses. The Company’s 
principal financial assets include investments, long term deposits, trade receivables, cash and short-term deposits / loan that derive 
directly from its operations.
 
 The Company is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company’s senior management oversees the management 
of these risks. The Company’s senior management is supported by the Board of Directors that advises on financial risks and the 
appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Company. The Board provides assurance to the Company’s management 
that the Company’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, 
measured and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. The management reviews and agrees 
policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
 
i. 
Market risk
 
 
 Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk 
and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include, deposits and FVTPL investments.
 
 
 The sensitivity analysis of the above mentioned risk in the following sections relate to the position as at 31st March, 2023 and 
31st March, 2022.
 
 
 The analyses exclude the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement 
obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities.
 
 
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analyses:
 
 
- 
 The sensitivity of the relevant profit or loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is 
based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022.
 
 
A. 
Interest rate risk
 
 
 
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the 
Company’s debt obligations with floating interest rates.
Increase / decrease in basis points
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2023
INR
+50
 (50.68)
INR
-50
 50.68 
31.03.2022
INR
+50
 (47.28)
INR
-50
 47.28 
 
 
 
 The assumed movement in basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable 
market environment, showing a significantly higher volatility than in prior years.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
162
 
(` in lacs)
 
(ii) Fair value hierarchy
 
 
 All financial instruments for which fair value is recognised or disclosed are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described 
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurements as a whole.
 
 
 Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets.This includes listed equity instruments, traded bonds 
and mutual funds that have quoted price. The fair value of all equity instruments (including bonds) which are traded in the stock 
exchanges is valued using the closing price as at the reporting period. The mutual funds are valued using the closing NAV.
 
 
 Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the counter 
derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as little as 
possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument 
is included in level 2.
 
 
 Level 3: valuation techniques for which the lowest level input which has a significant effect on fair value measurement is not 
based on observable market data.
 
 
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the financial year 2021-22 and 2022-23.
 
 
 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Company’s assets and liabilities, other than those 
whose fair values are close approximations of their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value-recurring fair value measurements for which fair values are 
disclosed at 31st March, 2023
Date of 
valuation
Fair value measurement using 
Total
Quoted prices in 
active markets
Significant 
observable inputs
Significant 
unobservable inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)
Financial assets
Investments in mutual funds
31.03.2023
 445.48 
 445.48 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted 
investments 
in 
preference shares measured at 
fair value through profit and loss
31.03.2023
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2023
 6.71 
 - 
 6.71 
 - 
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
(` in lacs)
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements for which fair values are 
disclosed at 31st March, 2022
Date of 
valuation
Fair value measurement using 
Total
Quoted prices in 
active markets
Significant 
observable inputs
Significant 
unobservable inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)
Financial assets
Investments in mutual funds
31.03.2022
 269.74 
 269.74 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted 
investments 
in 
preference shares measured at 
fair value through profit and loss
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2022
 3.44 
 - 
 3.44 
 - 
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
165
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
 
iii. Liquidity risk
 
 
 The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts.
 
 
 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted 
payments.
Particulars
Less than 3 
months
 3 to 12 
months 
1 to 5 years
> 5 years
Total
Year ended 31.03.2023
Borrowings
 335.68 
 2,369.55 
 6,313.28 
 109.49 
 9,128.00 
Lease liabilities
 9.64 
 49.59 
 34.45 
 - 
 93.69 
Trade payables
 6,210.64 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,210.64 
Other financial liabilities
 511.13 
 44.18 
 19.28 
 - 
 574.59 
Total
 7,067.10 
 2,463.32 
 6,367.01 
 109.49 
 16,006.92 
Year ended 31.03.2022
Borrowings
 185.36 
 2,106.90 
 6,668.14 
 109.49 
 9,069.89 
Lease liabilities
 11.24 
 35.92 
 66.66 
 - 
 113.82 
Trade payables
 4,419.34 
 234.17 
 29.32 
 - 
 4,682.82 
Other financial liabilities
 535.90 
 44.21 
 22.41 
 - 
 602.52 
Total
 5,151.84 
 2,421.20 
 6,786.52 
 109.49 
 14,469.05 
 
iv. 
Excessive risk concentration
 
 
 Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same 
geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly 
affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Company’s 
performance to developments affecting a particular industry. The Company is in automotive components manufacturing 
business and the management have assessed risk concentration as low.
45. Capital management
 
 The objective of the Company’s capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Company 
to carry out committed work programme requirements. The Company monitors the long term cash flow requirements of the business 
in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility.
 
 The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes to economic conditions. To maintain 
or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for 
cash, repay debt, put in place new debt facilities or undertake other such restructuring activities as appropriate. No changes were 
made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31st March, 2023.
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Borrowings (non current)
 6,718.69 
 7,237.05 
Borrowings (current)
 5,529.56 
 1,937.22 
Lease liabilities
 87.65 
 113.82 
Trade payables
 6,217.35 
 4,686.26 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 555.31 
 580.11 
Total debts
 19,108.56 
 14,554.46 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 41.32 
 23.06 
Net debts
 19,067.24 
 14,531.40 
Total equity
 31,649.10 
 31,284.31 
Total debt and equity
 50,716.34 
 45,815.71 
Gearing ratio (%)
37.68%
31.77%
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
164
 
(` in lacs)
 
 
B. 
Foreign currency sensitivity 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes 
in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to 
the Company’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency). Foreign currency risk 
sensitivity is the impact on the Company’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. 
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD, JPY and EURO exchange rates, with 
all other variables held constant. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Change in USD rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2023
+5%
 (18.02)
-5%
 18.02 
31.03.2022
+5%
 (1.59)
-5%
 1.59 
Change in JPY rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2023
+5%
 (8.09)
 (5%) 
 8.09 
31.03.2022
+5%
 (1.06)
 (5%) 
 1.06 
Change in EURO rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2023
+5%
 (0.37)
 (5%) 
 0.37 
31.03.2022
+5%
 (0.01)
 (5%) 
 0.01 
 
 
 
 The movement in the pre-tax effect on profit and loss is a result of a change in the fair value of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currency.
 
ii. 
Credit risk
 
 
 Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading 
to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its 
financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions.
 
 
 Credit risk from investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the treasury functions in accordance with the 
management policies. Investments of surplus funds are only made with approved counterparties who meet the appropriate rating and 
/or other criteria, and are only made within approved limits. The management continually re-assess the Company’s policy and update 
as required. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty failure.
 
 
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
 
 
A. 
Trade receivables
 
 
 
 Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and 
control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit 
review and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are 
regularly monitored.
 
 
 
 At the year end the Company does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk other than disclosed in Note 11.
 
 
 
 An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. The calculation is 
based on historical data. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class 
of financial assets disclosed in Note 43. The Company does not hold collateral as security. The Company evaluates the 
concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions and 
operate in largely independent markets.
 
 
B. 
Financial instruments and cash deposits
 
 
 
 Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in 
accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
167
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
47. Balance confirmation
 
 Debit and credit balance of trade payables and trade receivables to the extent not confirmed are subject to confirmation and 
reconciliation with parties.
48.  In the opinion of the Board of Directors and to the best of their knowledge and belief, the aggregate value of current assets on 
realization in the ordinary course of business will not be less than the amount at which these are stated in the balance sheet.
49.  Disclosure of movement in provisions during the year as per Ind AS 37, ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’:
Particulars
Balance as on 1st 
April, 2022
Provided during 
the year
Paid / Adjusted 
during the year
Balance as on 
31st March, 2023
Provisions
Gratuity
 883.33 
 158.71 
 (70.23)
 971.81 
Accumulated leaves
 157.10 
 78.10 
 (56.10)
 179.09 
Income Tax
 109.16 
 93.17 
 (109.16)
 93.17 
Total
 1,149.58 
 329.98 
 (235.50)
 1,244.07 
50. Dividends paid and proposed
Particulars
Year Ended 
31.03.2023
Year ended 
31.03.2022
A
Paid during the year
Interim dividend for FY 2022-23 ` 1 per share (FY 2021-22: ` nil per equity share) of `10/- 
each
 140.00 
 - 
Final dividend for FY 2021-22: `1.50 per share (FY 2020- 21 ` 1.00 per share)
 210.00 
 140.00 
 350.00 
 140.00 
B
Proposed for approval at the annual general meeting (not recognised as a liability)
Final dividend for FY 2022-23 `0.50 per share (FY 2021-22: ` 1.50 per share)
 70.00 
 210.00 
 
 
 Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognized as a 
liability as at year end.
51. Disclosure under Ind AS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’
 
 Ind AS 7 requires the entities to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities 
arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes, suggesting inclusion of a 
reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities.
31.03.2022
Cash flows
Non-cash changes
31.03.2023
Fair value changes
Long-term borrowings
 7,978.49 
 367.78 
 133.50 
 8,479.77 
Short term borrowings
 386.40 
 2,882.37 
 - 
 3,268.77 
Lease Liabilities
 113.82 
 (52.50)
 26.33 
 87.65 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 8,478.71 
 3,197.65 
 159.83 
 11,836.19 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
166
 
(` in lacs)
 
Additional Regulatory Information: Financial Ratios
Ratio
Numerator
Denominator
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
% change Reason where variance 
exceeds 25% 
Current ratio (in 
times)
Current Assets
Current Liabilities
 1.06 
 1.32 
-25% -
Debt- Equity Ratio 
(in times)
Total Debt
Shareholder’s Equity
 0.39 
 0.29 
24% -
Debt Service 
Coverage ratio (in 
times)
Earnings for debt 
service = Net profit 
after taxes + Non-cash 
operating expenses
Debt service = 
Interest & Lease 
Payments + Principal 
Repayments
 1.94 
 3.02 
-56% Repayment liabilities 
towards additional 
borrowings
Return on Equity 
ratio (in %)
Net Profits after taxes – 
Preference Dividend
Average Shareholder’s 
Equity
2.2%
1.5%
31% Improved profitability
Inventory Turnover 
ratio (in times)
Cost of goods sold or 
sale
Average Inventory
 9.75 
 9.66 
1% -
Trade Receivable 
Turnover Ratio (in 
times)
Net credit sales = Gross 
credit sales - sales 
return
Average Trade 
Receivable
 8.63 
 7.18 
17% -
Trade Payable 
Turnover Ratio (in 
times)
Net credit purchases = 
Gross credit purchases - 
purchase return
Average Trade 
Payables
 5.52 
 5.22 
5% -
Net Capital 
Turnover Ratio (in 
times)
Net sales = Total sales - 
sales return
Working capital = 
Current assets – 
Current liabilities
 57.78 
 14.00 
76% Improved sales and 
reduction in working 
capital
Net Profit ratio 
(in %)
Net Profit
Net sales = Total sales 
- sales return
1.4%
1.1%
20% -
Return on Capital 
Employed (in %)
Earnings before interest 
and taxes
Capital Employed = 
Tangible Net Worth + 
Total Debt + Deferred 
Tax Liability
4.4%
3.0%
32% Improved sales and 
profitability
Return on 
Investment* (in %)
"Income generated 
from investments"
"Time weighted 
average investments"
3.13%
1.59%
49% Higher appreciation in 
investments
* Non current investments held by the Company is for strategic purposes. Benchmarking the return on annual basis will 
not reflect yield from such investments.
46. Derivative instruments and unhedged foreign currency exposure
 
The amount of foreign currency exposure that are not hedged by derivative instruments or otherwise are as under:
31.03.2023
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
31.03.2022
Foreign 
currency 
Amount 
Foreign 
currency 
Amount 
Foreign trade payables
USD in lacs
 4.41 
 360.42 
 0.42 
 31.85 
JPY in lacs
 259.92 
 161.88 
 32.30 
 21.26 
EURO in lacs
 0.17 
 7.42 
 - 
 - 
Foreign trade receivables
USD in lacs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
JPY in lacs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
EURO in lacs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
169
Standalone Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
 
(` in lacs)
57.  Additional disclosure / Regulatory Information as required by Notification no. GSR 207(E) dated 24.03.2021 which are not 
covered in any of the notes above
 
(i) 
 No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the company for holding any benami property under benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
 
(ii) Reconciliation of quarterly statement of current assets filed with banks or financial statements
 
 
 There are no material variations between the quarterly statement of current assets filed during the year with the banks and the 
books of accounts.
 
(iii) Wilful Defaulter
 
 
No bank has declared the company as “wilful defaulter”.
 
(iv) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies:
 
 
 All applicable cases where registration of charges or satisfaction is required with Registrar of Companies have been done. No 
registration or satisfaction is pending at end of financial year 2022-2023.
 
(v) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies:
 
 
 No scheme of arrangements has been approved by the competent authority in terms of Section 230 to 237 of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
 
(vi) Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium:
Particulars
Description
No funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
No such transaction has 
taken place during the year
No funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by 
the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
No such transaction has 
taken place during the year
 
(vii) Undisclosed income
 
 
 There is no such income which has not been disclosed in the books of accounts. No such income is surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in the tax assessments under Income Tax Act, 1961.
 
(viii) Details of Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
 
 
The Company does not deal in Crypto Currency. Therefore further disclosures are not given
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
168
 
(` in lacs)
52.
 
Details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
CSR obligation as per the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 
 23.68 
 51.77 
Amount available for set off 
 (7.23)
 - 
a) Gross amount required to be spent during the year
 16.45 
 51.77 
b) Amount spent during the year ending on 31 March 2023:
(i) Construction / acquisition of an asset
 - 
 - 
(ii) On purpose other than (i) above
 60.94 
 59.00 
Amount spent through related parties out of (i) or (ii) above:
- Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation (a related Parties in the group where common control exists)
 60.94 
 59.00 
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation is engaged in following activities:
i) Providing healthcare and meal to unprivileged and downtrodden children which help them to 
pursue their education.
 5.00 
 - 
ii) Making payment of school fees of unprivileged children.
 10.23 
 9.56 
iii) Providing study material to unprivileged children.
 - 
 2.74 
iv) Plantation for promoting environmental sustainability.
 45.50 
 46.55 
v) Administrative Expenses
 0.21 
 0.15 
Total
 60.94 
 59.00 
c) Shortfall at the end of the year
 - 
 - 
Total of previous years shortfall
 - 
 - 
Reason for shortfall
 N/A 
 N/A 
d) Unspent CSR Account
i) Opening Balance
 - 
 - 
ii) Contribution for current year
 - 
 - 
iii) Amount spent on ongoing projects during the year
 - 
 - 
iv) Closing balance to be spent in future years
 - 
 - 
e) Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as per Section 135(5)
 nil 
 nil 
 
 During the year under review the company has spent ` 44.49 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 7.23 lakhs) in excess of the amount required 
to be spent. The excess amount shall be carried forward against the requirement to spend up to immediate succeeding three 
financial years.
53. Details of transactions with Struck-off Companies 
- 
-
54. Details of Benami Property 
- 
-
55. Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the Company 
- 
-
56. Critical judgements, estimates and assumptions
 
1. 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
 
 
 The Company assesses the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication 
that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. Where the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss (if any) is recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss.
 
 
 While assessing the recoverable amount, the Company used the discounted cash flow approach including various significant 
estimates and assumptions such as forecast of future revenue, operating margins, growth rate and selection of the discount rates.
 
2. 
Loss Allowance on trade receivables
 
 
 An impairment analysis of trade receivables is performed at each reporting period based on the Company’s history of collections, 
customer’s creditworthiness, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates. Basis this assessment, the 
allowance for doubtful trade receivables as at March 31, 2023 is considered adequate.
Notes to Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
171
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Information other than the consolidated financial statements and auditors’ report thereon
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in 
the annual report but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. 
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. 
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider 
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise 
appears to be materially misstated.
When we read such other information as and when made available to us and if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, 
we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Management’s Responsibility for the consolidated financial statements
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in Section 134(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) with 
respect to the preparation of these Ind AS consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial 
position, consolidated financial performance, consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash flows of the Group in accordance 
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the accounting Standards specified under Section 133 of the Act. This 
responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding 
of the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate 
accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance 
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting 
records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the consolidated financial statements that give a true and fair view and are free 
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are 
responsible for assessing the ability of the Group and of its subsidiaries, associates and joint venture to continue as a going concern, 
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Directors 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Those respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting 
process.
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high 
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a material misstatement 
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could 
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:
• 
 Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design 
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a 
basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, 
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• 
 Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our opinion on whether the Company has 
adequate internal financial controls system in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• 
 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management.
• 
 Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
170
TO THE MEMBERS OF PPAP AUTOMOTIVE LIMITED
Report on the audit of the Consolidated financial statements
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of PPAP Automotive Limited (“the Company”), its subsidiary companies and 
joint venture company (collectively referred to as “the Group”) which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31st March, 2023, 
and the consolidated statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows 
for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and 
other explanatory information. 
In our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements, give the information required by the Companies Act, 2013 (the “Act”) in the manner so required and give a true and fair view 
in conformity with the Indian Accounting Standards (“Ind AS”) prescribed under Section 133 of the Act read with the Companies (Indian 
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended and other accounting principles generally accepted in India, of their consolidated state 
of affairs of the Company as at 31st March , 2023, the consolidated loss, total consolidated comprehensive loss, consolidated changes in 
equity and its consolidated cash flows for the year ended on that date.
Basis for Opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities 
under those Standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the consolidated financial statements section 
of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of India together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements under the provisions 
of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and 
the Code of Ethics.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key Audit Matters 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a 
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter
How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized to the extent that economic benefit will 
flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. It 
is measured at fair value consideration received or receivable, net 
of returns and allowances, discounts and rebates. The Company 
recognizes revenue when it satisfies its performance obligation by 
transferring the goods to the customers.
Revenue is key driver of the business and judgement is involved 
in determining when contractual obligations have been performed 
and to the extent that the right to consideration has been earned. 
The management of the Company focuses on revenue as a 
key performance measure which could create an incentive for 
revenue to be recognized before the risks and rewards have 
been transferred. We therefore identified revenue recognition as 
a significant risk and key audit matter.
Our audit work included, but was not restricted to: 
• 
 We understood business revenue recognition policy and how 
they are applied, including the relevant controls, and tested 
controls over revenue recognition;
• 
Analytical review of the revenue recognized over the year; 
• 
 Agreeing on a sample basis amount of revenue to customer 
contracts and verifying the extent, timing and customer 
acceptance of goods, where relevant. 
• 
 We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue 
transactions around the period end date, to check that they 
were recognized in the appropriate period; and
• 
 We 
discussed 
key 
contractual 
arrangements 
with 
management and obtained relevant documentation, including 
in respect of rebate and returns arrangements. 
The Company’s accounting policy on revenue recognition is shown 
in note 2.3(i) to the financial statements and related disclosures 
are included in note 24. 
Based on our audit procedures we did not identify any evidence 
of material misstatement in the revenue recognized for the year 
ended 31st March, 2023 in the consolidated financial statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report. 
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 
173
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(g)  The Company has paid excess managerial remuneration of ` 64.97 lakhs to Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman & Managing 
director of the Company during the financial year 2023, exceeding the limits specified under section 197 of the Act read with 
Schedule V thereto on account of inadequacy of profits computed under Section 198 of the Act. However, the remuneration 
paid during the financial year 2023 was within the limits approved by the shareholder. The Company has represented to us that 
pursuant to section 197(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, it is in the process of seeking approval of shareholders and the said 
excess remuneration paid is held in trust for the Company by Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain till the necessary compliance is made. Other 
remuneration paid is within the limits specified in section 197 of the Act.
 
(h)  With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and 
Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to the explanations given to us:
 
 
i. 
The Group has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its Consolidated financial statements.
 
 
ii. 
 The Group did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material foreseeable 
losses.
 
 
iii. 
 There were no amounts which were required to be transferred to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the 
Company.
 
 
iv. 
(a)  The Management has represented that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share 
premium or any other sources or kind of funds) by the holding Company or its subsidiary companies incorporated in 
India to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity (“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether 
recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other 
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) by or on behalf of the holding 
Company or its subsidiary companies incorporated in India or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of 
the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
(b)  The Management has represented, that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, no funds (which are material either 
individually or in the aggregate) have been received by the holding Company or its subsidiary companies incorporated 
in India from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the understanding, whether recorded 
in writing or otherwise, that the holding Company or its subsidiary companies incorporated in India shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of 
the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate 
Beneficiaries;
 
 
 
(c)  Based on the audit procedures that have been considered reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 
has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations under sub-clause (i) and (ii) of Rule 
11(e), as provided under (a) and (b) above, contain any material misstatement.
 
 
(v) The dividend declared or paid during the year by the Holding Company is in compliance with the Section 123 of the Act.
3. 
 Proviso to Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 for maintaining books of account using accounting software which 
has a feature of recording audit trail (edit log) facility is applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiary companies or joint venture 
company with effect from April 1, 2023, and accordingly, reporting under Rule 11(g) of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 
is not applicable for the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
 
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
Place: Noida 
Sanjeev Agarwal
Date: 19th May, 2023 
Partner
M No.408316
UDIN: 23408316BGVOM67233
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
172
Group and its associates and joint venture to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we 
are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our 
auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group and its associates and joint venture to cease to continue 
as a going concern.
• 
 Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation.
• 
 Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group 
to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance 
of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the consolidated financial statements of which we are the 
independent auditors. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
Materiality is the magnitude of misstatements in the interim condensed consolidated financial statements that, individually or in aggregate, 
makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the consolidated financial statements may be 
influenced. We consider quantitative materiality and qualitative factors in (i) planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the 
results of our work; and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in the consolidated financial statements.
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding 
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our 
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in 
our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
1. 
 In terms of clause (xxi) of para 3 of The Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government 
of India in terms Section 143(11) of the Act, we report that no qualifications or adverse remarks have been made in the respective 
CARO reports of subsidiaries and Joint Venture Company whose financials have been consolidated in these financial statements. 
2. 
As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
 
(a)  We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary 
for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
 
(b)  In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated financial 
statements have been kept by the Group so far as it appears from our examination of those books.
 
(c)  The consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of profit and loss including the consolidated Statement of other 
comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement and consolidated Statement of changes in equity dealt with by 
this Report are in agreement with the books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial 
statements;
 
(d)  In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Accounting specified under Section 133 of the 
Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
 
(e)  On the basis of the written representations received from the Directors of the Company, its subsidiary companies and joint 
venture company and taken on record by the Board of Directors, none of the Directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2023 from 
being appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
 
(f) 
 With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls over financial reporting of the Group and the operating effectiveness 
of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure I”.
175
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Opinion 
In our opinion, the Company, its joint venture and subsidiary companies which are companies incorporated in India, have, in all material respects, 
an adequate internal financial controls system over financial reporting with reference to these consolidated financial statements and such internal 
financial controls over financial reporting were operating effectively as at 31st March 2023, based on the internal control over financial reporting 
criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on “Audit of Internal 
Financial Controls over Financial Reporting” issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. 
 
 
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
Place: Noida 
Sanjeev Agarwal
Date: 19th May, 2023 
Partner
M No.408316
UDIN: 23408316BGVOM67233
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
174
ANNEXURE- I TO THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
(Referred to in paragraph 2(f) under ‘Report on other legal and regulatory requirements’ section of our report of even date)
We have audited the internal financial controls over financial reporting of PPAP Automotive Limited (“the Company”), its subsidiary companies and 
joint venture company (collectively referred to as “the Group”), which are companies incorporated in India as of 31st March 2023 in conjunction 
with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date. 
Management’s responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The respective Board of Directors of the Company and its joint venture and subsidiary companies, which are companies incorporated in India, are 
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established 
by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on “Audit of Internal Financial Controls 
over Financial Reporting” issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. These responsibilities include the design, implementation and 
maintenance of adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, 
including adherence to company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and 
completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditors’ responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these consolidated 
financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls over 
Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing as specified under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable 
to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Those Standards and the Guidance Note 
require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal 
financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these consolidated financial statements was established and maintained and if such 
controls operated effectively in all material respects. 
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls system over financial 
reporting with reference to these financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls over financial 
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls over financial reporting with reference to these consolidated financial 
statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal 
control based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material 
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. 
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the Company’s 
internal financial controls system over financial reporting with reference to these consolidated financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting with reference to these financial statements
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
A company’s internal financial control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: 
(1)  pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets 
of the Company; 
(2)  provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with 
authorizations of management and Directors of the Company; and 
(3)  provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company’s 
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent limitations of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper 
management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation 
of the internal financial controls over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control over financial 
reporting may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may 
deteriorate. 
177
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF PROFIT AND LOSS 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
Particulars
Notes
 Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
INCOME
Revenue from operations
24
 51,111.22 
 42,191.73 
Other income
25
 141.07 
 99.78 
Total Income (I) 
 51,252.29 
 42,291.51 
Expenses
Cost of materials consumed
26
 33,342.06 
 25,392.59 
Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress 
27
 (1,981.11)
 191.85 
Employee benefits expense
28
 8,290.59 
 7,223.81 
Finance costs
29
 1,173.12 
 650.53 
Depreciation and amortization expense
30
 3,112.19 
 2,946.85 
Other expenses
31
 7,064.80 
 5,523.66 
Total Expenses (II)
 51,001.65 
 41,929.28 
Profit / (loss) before share of (profit) / loss of associates and a joint venture and tax 
from continuing operations (I-II)
 250.63 
 362.23 
Share of profit of Joint venture
 (761.93)
 (349.30)
Profit / (loss) before tax from continuing operations
 (511.29)
 12.93 
Tax expenses
21
Current tax
 119.58 
 121.42 
Adjustment of tax relating to earlier periods
 44.12 
 36.55 
Deferred tax
 (80.56)
 (66.20)
Profit / (loss) for the year
 (594.43)
 (78.84)
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI)
32
Items that will not be reclassified to profit & loss in subsequent periods
Re-measurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans
 (24.97)
 (15.47)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint venture
 0.79 
 0.57 
Income tax effect on such items
 6.28 
 3.89 
Total other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 (17.90)
 (11.01)
Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax
 (612.33)
 (89.85)
Profit / (Loss) for the period attributable to:
 Owners of the Company
 (594.44)
 (78.84)
 Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
Other comprehensive income / (loss) for the period attributable to:
 Owners of the Company
 (17.89)
 (11.01)
 Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
Total comprehensive income / (loss) for the period attributable to:
 Owners of the Company
 (612.33)
 (89.85)
 Non-controlling interest
 - 
 - 
Earnings per equity share (computed on the basis of profit for the year) 
33
(1) Basic (in `)
 (4.25)
 (0.56)
(2) Diluted (in `)
 (4.25)
 (0.56)
Significant accounting policies 
2
The accompanying Notes 1 to 56 form an integral part of these financial statements.
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
176
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET  
AS AT 31st MARCH, 2023
Particulars
Notes
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment
3
 30,967.06 
 27,387.72 
Capital work-in-progress
3a
 901.27 
 2,078.66 
Right of use assets
4
 87.46 
 159.24 
Other intangible assets
5
 825.32 
 883.19 
Intangible assets under development
5a
 174.07 
 68.73 
Financial assets
a. Investments
6
 3,732.58 
 4,293.71 
b. Other financial assets
7
 461.66 
 514.56 
Other non-current assets
8
 1,021.46 
 1,031.14 
 38,170.88 
 36,416.95 
Current assets
Inventories
9
 7,612.51 
 5,605.85 
Financial assets
a. Investments
6
 445.48 
 269.74 
b. Trade receivables
10
 6,511.00 
 5,586.22 
c. Cash and cash equivalents
11
 82.60 
 44.01 
d. Other balances with banks
12
 11.38 
 13.22 
e. Loans
13
 8.37 
 0.52 
f. Other financial assets
7
 207.18 
 175.39 
Current tax assets (net)
14
 113.82 
 123.78 
Other current assets
15
 1,636.15 
 1,716.99 
 16,628.49 
 13,535.72 
Total Assets
 54,799.37 
 49,952.67 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Equity share capital
16
 1,400.00 
 1,400.00 
Other equity
17
 28,074.79 
 28,988.35 
 29,474.79 
 30,388.35 
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
18
 7,992.02 
 7,888.92 
Lease liabilities
4
 33.19 
 85.30 
Other financial liabilities
19
 0.01 
 7.77 
Provisions
20
 597.89 
 638.89 
Deferred tax liabilities (net)
21
 508.87 
 595.29 
Current liabilities
Financial liabilities
Borrowings
18
 7,086.34 
 2,919.49 
Lease liabilities
4
 57.81 
 75.86 
Trade payables
22
- total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises
 1,048.94 
 917.30 
- total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises
 5,276.57 
 3,940.75 
Other financial liabilities 
19
 636.63 
 641.28 
Other current liabilities
23
 1,983.02 
 1,768.06 
Provisions
20
 103.29 
 85.41 
Total Liabilities
 25,324.58 
 19,564.31 
Total Equity and Liabilities
 54,799.37 
 49,952.66 
Significant accounting policies 
2
The accompanying Notes 1 to 56 form an integral part of these financial statements.
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
179
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Loan
 (7.85)
 53.26 
Payment of lease liabilities (refer note 4)
 (76.12)
 (38.50)
Interest paid
 (1,024.57)
 (566.53)
Proceeds / (repayment) of long term borrowings
 103.10 
 3,452.55 
Proceeds / (repayment) of short term borrowings
 4,166.85 
 2,186.15 
Dividends paid
 (350.00)
 (140.00)
Net cash flow from financing activities (C)
 2,811.41 
 4,946.92 
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents (A+B+C)
 38.59 
 (90.82)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the 
year
 44.01 
 134.83 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
 82.60 
 44.01 
Components of cash and cash equivalents at the 
end of the year
Cash on hand
 23.78 
 22.54 
Balance with banks
On current accounts
 42.14 
 21.47 
Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 16.68 
 - 
 82.60 
 44.01 
Significant accounting policies 
2
The accompanying Notes 1 to 56 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Note:
The cash flow statement has been prepared under the indirect method as set out in Indian Accounting Standard (Ind AS) 7 ‘Statement 
of Cash Flows’.
(` in lacs)
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
178
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS  
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31st MARCH, 2023
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Net profit before tax
 (511.30)
 12.93 
Adjusted for
Depreciation and amortisation expense
 3,112.19 
 2,946.85 
Interest expense
 1,033.14 
 566.53 
Balances written off
 5.69 
 9.64 
Provision for bad & doubtful debts
 (1.06)
 (1.30)
Profit on sale of investments
 (13.75)
 (4.24)
Employees share based payments
 48.76 
 - 
Unrealised exchange Loss/(Gain)
 (3.30)
 (14.31)
Share in net profit / loss in associate & Joint venture
 761.93 
 349.30 
Profit on cancellation of lease
 (1.94)
Interest income
 (15.59)
 (82.81)
 4,926.07 
 3,769.67 
Operating Profit before Working Capital Changes
 4,414.77 
 3,782.60 
Working capital adjustments
Decrease / (Increase) in inventories
 (2,006.66)
 (1,110.21)
Decrease / (Increase) in trade and other receivables
 (743.21)
 (156.04)
Movement in trade and other payables
 1,673.33 
 (122.13)
Movement in provisions
 (41.01)
 14.31 
 (1,117.56)
 (1,374.06)
Cash generated from operations
 3,297.21 
 2,408.53 
Direct taxes refunded / (paid)
 (234.18)
 (355.84)
Net cash from operating activities (A)
 3,063.03 
 2,052.69 
CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant, equipment
 (1,990.05)
 (6,728.19)
Purchase of assets in CWIP
 (3,263.19)
 (64.73)
Purchase of intangible assets
 (72.18)
 (3.50)
Purchase of Intangible assets under development
 (185.09)
 (189.00)
Sale of tangible fixed assets
 20.03 
 81.03 
Sale / (purchase) of current investments
 (175.74)
 (269.74)
Sale / (purchase) of non current investments
 (200.81)
 (2.97)
Profit on sale of investments
 13.75 
 4.24 
Investment in fixed deposits (purchased) / matured
 1.84 
 (0.38)
Interest income
 15.59 
 82.81 
Net cash used in investing activities (B)
 (5,835.85)
 (7,090.44)
(` in lacs)
181
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
1. 
Corporate information
 
 The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of PPAP Automotive Limited (“PPAP”) and its subsidiary 
companies (collectively, the Group) for the year ended 31st March, 2023. PPAP Automotive Limited (“PPAP” or “the company” or the 
”Parent”) is a public limited company domiciled in India and was incorporated on 18th October, 1995. The registered office of the 
Company is located at 54, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase-III New Delhi-110020, India.
 
 The company’s core competence is in developing plastic and driver-based extrusion systems as well as plastic injection moulding 
systems for various industries. The company is also in the business of developing high-precision plastic injection tooling for various 
industries. The company’s state of the art manufacturing facilities is located in Noida (UP), Greater Noida (UP), Vallam Vadagal (Tamil 
Nadu) Pathredi (Rajasthan) and Ukhlod (Gujarat). The Company is listed on the Indian Stock Exchange (BSE/ NSE) since 2008. 
 
 The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31st March 2023 were authorized for issue in accordance with a resolution 
of the directors on 19th May, 2023.
2. 
Significant accounting policies
 
2.1 Basis of preparation
 
 
 The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind 
AS) as prescribed under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) 
Rules, 2015 and the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) (Amendment) Rules, 2016.
 
 
 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost convention, except for the certain assets and 
liabilities which have been measured at different basis and such basis has been disclosed in relevant accounting policy.
 
 
 The financial statements are presented in Indian Rupees (INR) and all values are rounded to the nearest lakh (INR 00,000), 
except when otherwise indicated.
 
2.2 Basis of Consolidation
 
 
(i) 
Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 Subsidiary companies are entities over which the group has control. The group controls an entity when the group is exposed 
to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 
its power to direct the relevant activities of the entity. Subsidiary companies are fully consolidated from the date on which 
control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date the control ceases. The group combines the 
financial statements of the parent and its subsidiary companies line by line adding together like items of assets, liabilities, 
equity, income and expenses. Inter company transactions, balance and unrealised gains on transactions between group 
companies are eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency 
with the policies adopted by the group. Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown separately 
in the consolidated statement of profit and loss, consolidated statement of change in equity and balance sheet respectively.
 
 
(ii) Associates
 
 
 
 Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influence but not control or joint control. This is generally the 
case where the group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using 
the equity method of accounting (see (iv) below), after initially being recognised at cost.
 
 
(iii) Joint arrangements
 
 
 
 Under Ind AS 111 Joint Arrangements, investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or 
joint ventures. The classification depends on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor, rather than the legal 
structure of the joint arrangement. PPAP has one joint venture. Interests in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity 
method (see (iv) below), after initially being recognised at cost in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
 
(iv) Equity method
 
 
 
 Under the equity method of accounting, the investments are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise 
the Group’s share of the post-acquisition profits or losses of the investee in profit and loss, and the group’s share of other 
comprehensive income of the investee in other comprehensive income. Dividends received or receivable from associates 
and joint ventures are recognized as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment. 
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
180
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY  
AS AT 31st MARCH, 2023
A. 
Equity share capital (refer note 16) 
(` in lacs)
Equity shares of ` 10 each issued, subscribed and fully paid
No. of Shares
Amount
At 1st April, 2021
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Issue of share capital
 - 
 - 
At 31st March, 2022
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Issue of share capital
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
B. 
Other equity
Particulars
Reserves and Surplus
Items of other 
comprehensive 
income
Total equity 
(refer note 17)
General 
Reserve
Securities 
Premium
Retained 
earnings
Employee 
Stock 
Options 
reserve
Re-measurement 
gains / (losses) 
on defined benefit 
plans
As at 31st March, 2021
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  21,120.30 
 - 
 (61.06)
 29,218.19 
Net income / (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 (78.84)
 - 
 - 
 (78.84)
Other comprehensive income (note 32)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (11.01)
 (11.01)
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 (78.84)
 - 
 (11.01)
 (89.84)
Final dividend
 - 
 - 
 (140.00)
 - 
 - 
 (140.00)
As at 31st March, 2022
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  20,901.47 
 - 
 (72.07)
 28,988.35 
Net income / (loss) for the year
 - 
 - 
 (594.43)
 - 
 - 
 (594.43)
Share based payments (Refer note 35)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 48.76 
 - 
 48.76 
Other comprehensive income (note 32)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (17.89)
 (17.89)
Total comprehensive income
 - 
 - 
 (594.43)
 48.76 
 (17.89)
 (563.56)
Final dividend
 - 
 - 
 (350.00)
 - 
 - 
 (350.00)
As at 31st March, 2023
 1,158.95 
 7,000.00  19,957.04 
 48.76 
 (89.96)
 28,074.79 
The accompanying Notes 1 to 56 form an integral part of these financial statements.
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
183
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 Leasehold Land and Leasehold Improvements are amortized over the period of the lease or the useful life of the 
asset, whichever is lower.
 
 
 
 
 The residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation / amortization of property, plant and equipment are 
reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
 
 
 
ii) 
Capital work in progress
 
 
 
 
 Capital work in progress includes construction stores including material in transit / equipment / services, etc. received 
at site for use in the projects.
 
 
 
 
 All revenue expenses incurred during construction period, which are exclusively attributable to acquisition / construction 
of fixed assets, are capitalized at the time of commissioning of such assets.
 
 
c. 
Investment properties 
 
 
 
 Investment properties held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both are stated in the balance sheet at cost, less 
any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is charged on 
a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. Any gain or loss on disposal of investment property is determined as 
the difference between net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is recognized in the statement 
of profit and loss. Transfer to, or from, investment property is done at the carrying amount of the property.
 
 
d. 
Intangible Assets
 
 
 
 Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following initial recognition, intangible 
assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment loss.
 
 
 
 Intangible assets with finite lives (i.e. software and licenses) are amortized over the useful economic life and assessed for 
impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and method 
for an intangible asset is reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. 
 
 
 
 Costs relating to computer software and technical know-how are capitalised and amortised on straight line method over 
their estimated useful economic life of six years.
 
 
 
 Internally generated: Research & development Costs
 
 
 
i) 
Research costs are charged to the statement of Profit and Loss in the year in which they are incurred.
 
 
 
ii) 
 Product development costs incurred on new dies and moulds and new products are recognised as intangible assets, 
when feasibility has been established, the Company has committed technical, financial and other resources to 
complete the development and it is probable that asset will generate future economic benefits.
 
 
 
 The cost of an internally generated intangible asset is the sum of directly attributable expenditure incurred from the date 
when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria to the completion of its development.
 
 
 
 Product development costs is amortised over the life of the related product, being a period of 6 years. Product development 
expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, if any. Amortisation is not recorded on 
product engineering in progress until development is complete.
 
 
e. 
Borrowing Costs
 
 
 
 Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a 
substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset. 
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they occur. 
 
 
f. 
Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 
 The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. 
An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (CGU) fair value less costs of disposal 
and its value in use. Recoverable amount is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash 
inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets. When the carrying amount of an asset 
or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
 
 
 
 Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
182
 
 
 
 When the group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including 
any other unsecured long-term receivables, the group does not recognize further losses, unless it has incurred obligations 
or made payments on behalf of the other entity.
 
 
 
 Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent 
of the group’s interest in these entities. Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence 
of an impairment of the asset transferred. Accounting policies of equity accounted investees have been changed where 
necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by Group.
 
 
 
 The carrying amount of equity accounted investments are tested for impairment in accordance with the policy described in 
note 2.3 (f) below.
 
2.3  Significant accounting policies
 
 
a. 
Current versus non-current classification
 
 
 
The Group presents assets and liabilities in the balance sheet based on current / non-current classification. 
 
 
 
An asset/ liability is treated as current when it is:
 
 
 
• 
Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed or settled in normal operating cycle;
 
 
 
• 
Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
 
 
 
• 
Expected to be realised/settled within twelve months after the reporting period;
 
 
 
• 
 Cash or cash equivalent unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve months 
after the reporting period; and 
 
 
 
• 
 There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting 
period.
 
 
 
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current. 
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classified as non-current assets and liabilities respectively.
 
 
b. 
Property, plant and equipment
 
 
 
i) 
Tangible assets
 
 
 
 
 Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost [i.e., cost of acquisition or construction inclusive of freight, erection 
and commissioning charges, non-refundable duties and taxes, expenditure during construction period, borrowing 
costs (in case of a qualifying asset) upto the date of acquisition / installation], net of accumulated depreciation and 
accumulated impairment losses, if any. 
 
 
 
 
 When significant parts of property, plant and equipment (identified individually as component) are required to be 
replaced at intervals, the Group derecognizes the replaced part, and recognizes the new part with its own associated 
useful life and it is depreciated accordingly. Whenever major inspection / overhaul / repair is performed, its cost is 
recognized in the carrying amount of respective assets as a replacement, if the recognition criteria are satisfied. All 
other repair and maintenance costs are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 
 The present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of an asset after its use is included in the cost of the 
respective asset if the recognition criteria for a provision are met. 
 
 
 
 
 Property, plant and equipment are eliminated from financial statements, either on disposal or when retired from active 
use. Losses / gains arising in case retirement / disposals of property, plant and equipment are recognized in the 
statement of profit and loss in the year of occurrence.
 
 
 
 
 Depreciation on property, plant and equipment are provided to the extent of depreciable amount on the straight line 
method (SLM). Depreciation is provided at the rates and in the manner prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies 
Act, 2013 except on some assets, where useful life has been taken based on internal technical evaluation as given 
below:
Particulars
Useful lives 
Dies and Moulds
15 years
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
185
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes 
provisions where appropriate.
 
 
 
 Current tax assets are offset against current tax liabilities if, and only if, a legally enforceable right exists to set off the 
recognised amounts and there is an intention either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability 
simultaneously.
 
 
 
 Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT), paid in accordance with the Income Tax Act, 1961 gives rise to expected future economic 
benefits in the form of adjustment of future tax liability arising within a specified period, is recognised as an asset only to 
the extent there is convincing evidence that the Group will pay normal income tax during the specified period. Such asset 
is reviewed at each balance sheet date and the carrying amount of MAT credit asset is written down to the extent there is 
no longer convincing evidence to the effect that the Group will pay normal income tax during the specified period.
 
 
 
Deferred tax
 
 
 
 Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities 
and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the reporting date. 
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and 
any unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be 
available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax 
losses can be utilised.
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset 
is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at 
the balance sheet date. Tax relating to items recognized directly in equity / other comprehensive income is recognized in 
respective head and not in the statement of profit & loss.
 
 
 
 The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and is adjusted to the extent that it is 
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
 
 
 
 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets 
against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
 
 
k. 
Employee benefits
 
 
 
Short-term obligations
 
 
 
 Liabilities for wages and salaries including non-monetary benefits that are expected to be settled within twelve months of 
rendering the service are recognised in the period in which the employee renders the related service and are measured 
at the undiscounted amount expected to be paid.
 
 
 
Other long-term employee benefit obligations
 
 
 
 Other long-term employee benefits are recognised as an expense in the statement of profit and loss as and when they 
accrue. The Group determines the liability using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations carried out as at 
the balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses in respect of such benefits are charged to the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
Post-employment obligations
 
 
 
Defined contribution plans:
 
 
 
 The Group makes payments made to defined contribution plans such as provident fund and employees’ state insurance 
fund. The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are accounted 
for as defined contribution plans and the contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. 
 
 
 
Defined benefit plans:
 
 
 
 The Group has defined benefit plan namely gratuity fund for employees. The gratuity fund is recognised by the income tax 
authorities and is administered through trusts set up by the Group. Any shortfall in the size of the fund maintained by the 
trust is additionally provided for in profit or loss. The liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of gratuity 
plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan 
assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by actuary using the projected unit credit method. The present 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
184
 
 
g. 
Inventories
 
 
 
 Items of inventories are measured at lower of cost and net realizable value after providing for obsolescence, wherever 
considered necessary. Cost of inventories comprises of cost of purchase, cost of conversion and other costs including 
manufacturing overheads incurred in bringing them to their respective present location and condition. Cost of raw material, 
stores and spares, packing materials, trading and other products are determined on weighted average basis. Work-in-
progress is carried at cost or net realisable value whichever is lower.
 
 
h. 
Revenue Recognition
 
 
 
The Group derives revenues primarily from manufacturing and sale of automotive components and moulds.
 
 
 
 Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects 
the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services.
 
 
 
Arrangements with customers for sale of automotive components and moulds are mostly on a fixed – price basis. 
 
 
 
 Revenue from fixed-price contracts is recognised when the performance obligations are satisfied upon delivery of 
components to the customers and where there is no uncertainty as to measurement or collectability of consideration. When 
there is uncertainty as to measurement or ultimate collectability, revenue recognition is postponed until such uncertainty is 
resolved.
 
 
 
 The Group accounts for volume discounts and pricing incentives to customers as a reduction of revenue based on the 
rateable allocation of the discounts / incentives to each of the underlying performance obligation that corresponds to the 
progress by the customer towards earning the discount / incentive. Also, when the level of discount varies with increase in 
levels of revenue transactions, the Group recognizes the liability based on its estimate of the customer’s future purchases. 
If it is probable that the criteria for the discount will not be met, or if the amount thereof cannot be estimated reliably, then 
discount is not recognized until the payment is probable and the amount can be estimated reliably. The Group recognizes 
changes in the estimated amount of obligations for discounts in the period in which the change occurs.
 
 
 
 Contract modifications are accounted for when additions, deletions or changes are approved either to the contract scope 
or contract price.
 
 
 
 Revenues in excess of invoicing are classified as contract assets (which we refer as unbilled revenue) while invoicing in 
excess of revenues are classified as contract liabilities (which we refer to as unearned revenues).
 
 
 
Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is established.
 
 
 
 Interest income is recognized on a time proportion basis taking into account the amount outstanding and the interest rate 
applicable. 
 
 
i. 
Foreign currency transactions
 
 
 
The Group’s financial statements are presented in INR, which is also its functional currency. 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency transactions are initially recorded in functional currency using the exchange rates at the date the 
transaction.
 
 
 
 At each balance sheet date, foreign currency monetary items are reported using the exchange rate prevailing at the year 
end.
 
 
 
Exchange differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
 Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange 
rates at the dates of the initial transactions. 
 
 
j. 
Taxes on income
 
 
 
Current tax
 
 
 
 Current tax is measured at the amount expected to be paid / recovered to / from the taxation authorities. The tax rates and 
tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
 
 
 
 Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity / other comprehensive income is recognised under 
the respective head and not in the statement of profit & loss. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
187
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
Right of Use (ROU) Assets
 
 
 
 The ROU assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease payments made at or before 
the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
 
 
 
 Whenever the Group incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased asset, restore the site on which it 
is located or restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease, a provision 
is recognised and measured under Ind AS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. The costs are 
included in the related right-of-use asset.
 
 
 
 The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in section 2.3, Impairment of non-
financial assets.
 
 
 
 ROU assets are depreciated over the shorter period of the lease term and useful life of the underlying asset. If the Group 
is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful 
life. The depreciation starts at the commencement date of the lease.
 
 
 
 Lease liability and ROU asset is separately presented in the balance sheet and lease payments is classified as financing 
cash flows.
 
 
 
As a lessor :
 
 
 
The Group enters into lease arrangements as a lessor with respect to some of its investment properties and buildings.
 
 
 
 Leases for which the Group is a lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the terms of the lease 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as finance lease. All 
other leases are classified as operating leases.
 
 
 
 Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct 
costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and 
recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
 
 
 
 Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment 
in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on 
the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.
 
 
o. 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
 
 
 
 Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past events and it 
is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. 
 
 
 
 If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, when 
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of 
time is recognised as a finance cost.
 
 
 
Contingent liability is disclosed in the case of:
 
 
 
• 
 a present obligation arising from past events, when it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to 
settle the obligation;
 
 
 
• 
a present obligation arising from past events, when no reliable estimate is possible
 
 
 
Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
 
 
p. 
Earnings per share
 
 
 
 Basic earnings per equity share is computed by dividing the net profit after tax attributable to the equity shareholders by 
the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per equity share is computed 
by dividing adjusted net profit after tax by the aggregate of weighted average number of equity shares and dilutive potential 
equity shares during the year. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
186
value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows by reference to 
market yields at the end of the reporting period on Government bonds that have terms approximating to the terms of the 
related obligation. The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets. This cost is included in employee benefit expense in profit or loss.
 
 
 
 Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are 
recognised in the period in which they occur, directly in other comprehensive income. They are included in retained 
earnings in the statement of changes in equity and in the balance sheet. Changes in the present value of the defined 
benefit obligation resulting from plan amendments or curtailments are recognised immediately in profit or loss as past 
service cost.
 
 
l. 
Employee Share based Payments
 
 
 
 The Parent Company operates equity settled share-based plan for the employees (Referred to as employee stock option 
plan (ESOP)). ESOP granted to the employees are measured at fair value of the stock options at the grant date using Black-
Scholes model. Such fair value of the equity settled share based payments are amortised on a straight line basis over the 
vesting period, based on the Parent Company’s estimate of equity shares that will eventually vest, with a corresponding 
increase in equity (employee stock option reserve). At the end of each reporting period, the Parent Company revises 
its estimate of number of equity shares expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is 
recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss such that cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, 
with a corresponding adjustments to the employee stock option reserve. 
 
 
 
 The Parent Company recovers the expenses incurred on behalf of its subsidiary for the stock options granted to the 
employees of the subsidiaries.
 
 
m. Royalty 
 
 
 
 The Group pays/ accrues for royalty in accordance with the relevant licence agreement with the technical know-how 
provider. The lump sum royalty incurred towards obtaining technical assistance / technical know-how and engineering 
support to manufacture new parts, ownership of which rests with the technical know-how provider, is recognised as an 
intangible asset. Royalty payable on sales of products i.e. running royalty is charged to the statement of Profit and loss as 
and when incurred.
 
 
n. 
Leases
 
 
 
As a lessee:
 
 
 
 The Group recognizes a right-of-use asset (ROU) and a corresponding lease liability for all lease arrangements in which 
it is a lessee, except for leases with a term of twelve months or less (short-term leases) and low value leases. For these 
short-term and low value leases, the Group recognizes the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line 
basis over the term of the lease. Certain lease arrangements includes the options to extend or terminate the lease before 
the end of the lease term. ROU assets and lease liabilities includes these options when it is reasonably certain that they 
will be exercised. 
 
 
 
Lease Liability
 
 
 
 At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognizes lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease 
payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including in substance fixed 
payments) less any lease incentives receivable, and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The 
lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Group and 
payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising the option to terminate. 
Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognized as expenses in the period in which the 
event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.
 
 
 
 In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate at the lease 
commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement 
date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments 
made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the lease 
term, a change in the lease payments.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
189
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
(a) Financial assets
 
 
 
 
Classification
 
 
 
 
 The Group classifies financial assets as subsequently measured at amortized cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss on the basis of its business model for managing the financial 
assets and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial asset.
 
 
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement 
 
 
 
 
 All financial assets are recognized initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value 
through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
 
 
 
 
Subsequent measurement 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of subsequent measurement financial assets are classified in below categories:
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets carried at amortised cost
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is subsequently measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective 
is to hold the asset in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of the financial asset give 
rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding.
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset is subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income if it is held within 
a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial 
assets and the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely 
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The Group has made an irrevocable 
election for its investments which are classified as equity instruments to present the subsequent changes in fair 
value in other comprehensive income based on its business model. 
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
 
 
 
 
 
 A financial asset which is not classified in any of the above categories are subsequently fair valued through profit 
or loss.
 
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
 
 A financial asset is primarily derecognized when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or the Group 
has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset.
 
 
 
Investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
 
 
 
The Group has accounted for its investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at cost. 
 
 
 
Impairment of financial assets 
 
 
 
 The Group assesses impairment based on expected credit losses (ECL) model for measurement and recognition of 
impairment loss, the calculation of which is based on historical data, on the financial assets that are trade receivables or 
contract revenue receivables and all lease receivables.
 
 
 
 The Group follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on Trade receivables or contract 
revenue receivables and all lease receivables resulting from transactions within the scope of Ind AS 17
 
 
 
 The application of simplified approach does not require the Group to track changes in credit risk. Rather, it recognizes 
impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
 
 
 
 For recognition of impairment loss on other financial assets and risk exposure, the Group determines that whether there 
has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition. If credit risk has not increased significantly, 
12-month ECL is used to provide for impairment loss. However, if credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime ECL is 
used. If, in a subsequent period, credit quality of the instrument improves such that there is no longer a significant increase 
in credit risk since initial recognition, then the entity reverts to recognizing impairment loss allowance based on 12-month 
ECL. 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
188
 
 
q. 
Recent accounting pronouncements
 
 
 
 Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments to the existing standards under Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as issued from time to time. On March 31, 2023, MCA amended the Companies 
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 by issuing the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 
2023, applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
 
 
 
Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements
 
 
 
 This amendment requires the entities to disclose their material accounting policies rather than their significant accounting 
policies. The effective date for adoption of this amendment is annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2023. The Company 
has evaluated the amendment and the impact of the amendment is insignificant in the standalone financial statements.
 
 
 
Ind AS 8 – Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
 
 
 
 The amendments will help entities to distinguish between accounting policies and accounting estimates. The definition of 
a change in accounting estimates has been replaced with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, 
accounting estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to measurement uncertainty”. Entities 
develop accounting estimates if accounting policies require items in financial statements to be measured in a way that 
involves measurement uncertainty. The Company does not expect this amendment to have any significant impact in its 
financial statements.
 
 
 
Ind AS 12 – Income Taxes
 
 
 
 This amendment has narrowed the scope of the initial recognition exemption so that it does not apply to transactions that 
give rise to equal and offsetting temporary differences. The effective date for adoption of this amendment is annual periods 
beginning on or after April 1, 2023. The Company has evaluated the amendment and there is no impact on its Standalone 
financial statements.
 
 
r. 
Cash and cash equivalents
 
 
 
 Cash and cash equivalent in the balance sheet comprise cash at banks and on hand, cheques on hand and short-term 
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
 
 
 
 For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, as 
defined above.
 
 
s. 
Fair value measurement
 
 
 
 The Group measures financial instruments such as derivatives and certain investments, at fair value at each balance sheet 
date. 
 
 
 
 All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are categorized within the 
fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement 
as a whole: 
 
 
 
• 
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
 
 
 
• 
 Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
directly or indirectly observable 
 
 
 
• 
 Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is 
unobservable
 
 
 
 For assets and liabilities that are recognized in the balance sheet on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether 
transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization (based on the lowest level input that 
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period.
 
 
 
 For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the 
nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
 
 
t. 
Financial instruments
 
 
 
 A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
191
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
Derecognition
 
 
 
 
 A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When 
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms 
of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition 
of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is 
recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
 
 
 
(c) Offsetting of financial instruments 
 
 
 
 
 Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet if there is a 
currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to 
realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
 
 
 
(d) Derivative financial instruments
 
 
 
 
 The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps, full currency 
swaps and forward commodity contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks, interest rate risks and commodity price 
risks, respectively. Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a 
derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial 
assets when the fair value is positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
 
 
 
 
 Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken directly to statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
u. 
Government grants
 
 
 
 Government grants are recognized where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached 
conditions will be complied with.
 
 
 
 When the grant relates to an asset, the cost of the asset is shown at gross value and grant thereon is treated as capital 
grant which is recognized as income in statement of profit and loss over the period and in proportion in which depreciation 
is charged.
 
 
 
 When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognized as income on a systematic basis over the periods that the 
related costs, for which it is intended to compensate, are expensed.
 
 
 
 When the Group receives grants of non-monetary assets, the asset and the grant are recorded at fair value amounts and 
released to profit or loss over the expected useful life in a pattern of consumption of the benefit of the underlying asset.
 
 
 
 When loans or similar assistance are provided by governments or related institutions, with an interest rate below the current 
applicable market rate, the effect of this favorable interest is regarded as a government grant. The loan or assistance is 
initially recognized and measured at fair value and the government grant is measured as the difference between the initial 
carrying value of the loan and the proceeds received. The loan is subsequently measured as per the accounting policy 
applicable to financial liabilities.
 
 
v. 
Unless specifically stated to be otherwise, these policies are consistently followed.
 
2.4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions
 
 
 The preparation of the Group’s financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the 
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated 
and are based on management’s experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 
reasonable under the circumstances. Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require 
a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
 
 
 In particular, the Group has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are required. 
Further information on each of these areas and how they impact the various accounting policies are described below and also 
in the relevant notes to the financial statements. Changes in estimates are accounted for prospectively.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
190
 
 
 
 Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial 
instrument. The 12-month ECL is a portion of the lifetime ECL which results from default events that are possible within 12 
months after the reporting date.
 
 
 
 ECL is the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the group in accordance with the contract and all 
the cash flows that the entity expects to receive (i.e., all cash shortfalls), discounted at the original EIR. When estimating 
the cash flows, an entity is required to consider:
 
 
 
• 
 All contractual terms of the financial instrument (including prepayment, extension, call and similar options) over the 
expected life of the financial instrument.
 
 
 
• 
Cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms
 
 
 
 
 As a practical expedient, the Group uses a provision matrix to determine impairment loss allowance on portfolio of its 
trade receivables. The provision matrix is based on its historically observed default rates over the expected life of the 
trade receivables and is adjusted for forward-looking estimates. At every reporting date, the historical observed default 
rates are updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analyzed. On that basis, the Group estimates the 
following provision matrix at the reporting date:
Less than 6 months
6 months -1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 years
Default rate
0.05%
1.00%
50.00%
75.00%
100.00%
 
 
 
 
 ECL impairment loss allowance (or reversal) recognized during the period is recognized as income/ expense in the 
statement of profit and loss (P&L). This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the P&L.
 
 
 
(b) Financial liabilities
 
 
 
 
Classification
 
 
 
 
 The Group classifies all financial liabilities as subsequently measured at amortized cost, except for financial liabilities 
at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities, including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be subsequently 
measured at fair value.
 
 
 
 
Initial recognition and measurement
 
 
 
 
 All financial liabilities are recognized initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings and payables, net 
of directly attributable transaction costs. The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans and 
borrowings including bank overdrafts, and derivative financial instruments.
 
 
 
 
Subsequent measurement
 
 
 
 
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as described below: 
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
 
 
 
 
 
 After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortized cost 
using the EIR method. Gains and losses are recognized in profit or loss when the liabilities are derecognized as 
well as through the EIR amortization process.
 
 
 
 
 
 Amortized cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that 
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is included as finance costs in the statement of profit and 
loss.
 
 
 
 
• 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
 
 
 
 
 
 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for trading and financial 
liabilities designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified 
as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term. This category also includes 
derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in 
hedge relationships as defined by Ind AS 109. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for 
trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
 
 
 
 
 
Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognized in the statement of profit and loss.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
193
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
3. 
Property, plant and equipment
Particulars
 Land 
 Factory 
Building 
 Building 
Renovation 
 Plant & 
Machinery 
Furniture 
& fixtures 
 Vehicle 
 Office 
Equipment 
 Dies & 
Moulds 
Computer 
 Total 
Cost 
As at 1st April, 
2021
2,159.27 
 9,479.15 
 - 
 17,810.92 
 730.71 
1,038.33 
 392.23 
2,997.83 
 389.47 34,997.91 
Additions
 65.89 
 1,689.45 
 91.03 
 3,041.25 
 120.90 
 74.26 
 36.37 
1,462.28 
 84.97 
 6,666.40 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60.06 
 2.44 
 215.83 
 5.71 
 - 
 1.49 
 285.53 
As at 1st April, 
2022
2,225.16 11,168.60 
 91.03 
 20,792.10 
 849.17 
 896.76 
 422.89 
4,460.11 
 472.95 41,378.78 
Additions
 - 
 1,099.16 
 109.24 
 4,211.59 
 184.65 
 29.34 
 121.58 
 590.48 
 84.60 
 6,430.63 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 26.98 
 6.07 
 7.98 
 - 
 - 
 0.69 
 41.72 
Reclassification 
to Investment 
Property
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st 
March, 2023
2,225.16 12,267.76 
 200.27 
 24,976.71 
 1,027.75 
 918.12 
 544.47 
5,050.59 
 556.86 47,767.69 
Depreciation
As at 1st April, 
2021
 48.46 
 1,541.68 
 - 
 7,162.97 
 280.80 
 553.03 
 279.56 
1,365.42 
 280.35 11,512.27 
Depreciation 
charge for the 
year 2021-22
 21.06 
 352.01 
 2.87 
 1,717.29 
 70.53 
 128.52 
 39.73 
 314.11 
 36.76 
 2,682.87 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 45.26 
 0.66 
 153.72 
 3.65 
 - 
 0.81 
 204.10 
As at 1st April, 
2022
 69.52 
 1,893.69 
 2.87 
 8,835.00 
 350.67 
 527.83 
 315.64 
1,679.53 
 316.29 13,991.05 
 Depreciation 
charge for the 
year 2022-23 
 21.24 
 416.56 
 32.11 
 1,918.06 
 81.95 
 84.14 
 39.60 
 182.94 
 54.68 
 2,831.28 
 Disposals 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 15.00 
 0.48 
 5.57 
 - 
 - 
 0.65 
 21.70 
Reclassification 
to Investment 
Property
As at 31st 
March, 2023
 90.76 
 2,310.25 
 34.98 
 10,738.06 
 432.14 
 606.40 
 355.24 
1,862.47 
 370.32 16,800.63 
Net book value
As at 31st 
March, 2023
2,134.40 
 9,957.51 
 165.29 
 14,238.65 
 595.59 
 311.72 
 189.20 
3,188.12 
 186.54 30,967.06 
As at 31st 
March, 2022
2,155.64 
 9,274.91 
 88.16 
 11,957.10 
 498.49 
 368.93 
 107.25 
2,780.58 
 156.66 27,387.72 
Note : Property, plant & equipment refer significant accounting policies note no 2.3b
(i) 
Additional disclosure / Regulatory Information as required by Notification no. GSR 207(E) dated 24.03.2021 
 
 I. 
The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment during the year. 
 
 II.  The title deeds of all the immovable properties held by the Company (other than properties where the Company is the lessee 
and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) are held in the name of the Company.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
192
 
 
Judgements
 
 
 In the process of applying the Group’s accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, which have the 
most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements:
 
 
Contingencies
 
 
 Contingent liabilities may arise from the ordinary course of business in relation to claims against the Group, including legal, 
contractor, land access and other claims. By their nature, contingencies will be resolved only when one or more uncertain future 
events occur or fail to occur. The assessment of the existence, and potential quantum, of contingencies inherently involves the 
exercise of significant judgments and the use of estimates regarding the outcome of future events.
 
 
Estimates and assumptions
 
 
 The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that have a 
significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, 
are described below. The Group based its assumptions and estimates on parameters available when the consolidated financial 
statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and assumptions about future developments, however, may change due to 
market change or circumstances arising beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are reflected in the assumptions when 
they occur.
 
 
(a) Impairment of non-financial assets
 
 
 
 The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any indication 
exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group estimates the asset’s recoverable amount. An 
asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s or CGU’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. It is 
determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those 
from other assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the 
asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
 
 
 
 In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. In determining 
fair value less costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, 
an appropriate valuation model is used. These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for 
publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair value indicators.
 
 
(b) Defined benefit plans
 
 
 
 The cost of the defined benefit plan and other post-employment benefits and the present value of such obligation are 
determined using actuarial valuations. An actuarial valuation involves making various assumptions that may differ from 
actual developments in the future. These include the determination of the discount rate, future salary increases, mortality 
rates and future pension increases. Due to the complexities involved in the valuation and its long-term nature, a defined 
benefit obligation is highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date.
 
 
(c) Fair value measurement of financial instruments
 
 
 
 When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be measured based 
on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the DCF model. The 
inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, a degree of 
judgment is required in establishing fair values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit 
risk and volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments.
 
 
(d) Impairment of financial assets
 
 
 
 The impairment provisions for financial assets are based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates. 
The Group uses judgments in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment calculation, based on 
Group’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at the end of each reporting period.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
195
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
5. Other Intangible assets
Cost 
Software
Technical Know 
How
 Website Development 
 Total 
As at 1st April, 2021
 518.55 
 1,379.98 
 3.13 
 1,901.65 
Additions
 36.93 
 152.07 
 - 
 189.00 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 2022
 555.48 
 1,532.05 
 3.13 
 2,090.65 
Additions
 93.88 
 58.05 
 - 
 151.93 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 649.36 
 1,590.10 
 3.13 
 2,242.58 
Amortisation
As at 1st April, 2021
 210.42 
 789.35 
 0.11 
 999.88 
Amortization charge for the year 2021-2022
 69.48 
 137.61 
 0.50 
 207.59 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 1st April, 2022
 279.90 
 926.96 
 0.61 
 1,207.47 
Amortization charge for the year 2022-2023
 73.97 
 135.55 
 0.27 
 209.79 
Disposals
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 353.88 
 1,062.51 
 0.88 
 1,417.26 
Net book value
As at 31st March, 2023
 295.48 
 527.59 
 2.25 
 825.32 
As at 31st March, 2022
 275.57 
 605.09 
 2.52 
 883.19 
5a. Intangible assets under development
Software
 Development 
asset 
Total
As at 1st April, 2021
 16.65 
 2.39 
 19.05 
Additions
 3.50 
 66.34 
 69.84 
Disposals / capitalizations
 20.15 
 - 
 20.15 
As at 1st April, 2022
 - 
 68.73 
 68.73 
Additions
 1.33 
 183.77 
 185.09 
Disposals / capitalizations
 1.33 
 78.43 
 79.75 
As at 31st March, 2023
 - 
 174.07 
 174.07 
a) 
Ageing of intangible assets under development as at 31.03.2023
Capital work-in-progress
 Amount of intangible assets under development for a period of 
Total
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years More than 3 years
 Projects in progress
 174.07 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 174.07 
 Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b) 
Ageing of intangible assets under development as at 31.03.2022
Capital work-in-progress
 Amount of intangible assets under development for a period of 
Total
 Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 68.73 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 68.73 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
194
 
(` in lacs)
3a. Capital work-in-progress
Particulars
Building 
Construction
Plant & 
Machinery
Furniture& 
Fixtures
 Office 
Equipment 
 Dies & 
Moulds 
 
Computer 
 Total 
As at 1st April, 2021
 1,330.68 
 587.10 
 40.36 
 12.16 
 25.84 
 17.80 
 2,013.93 
Additions
 644.14 
 3,471.24 
 52.94 
 5.79 
 285.57 
 1.23 
 4,460.91 
Disposals / capitalizations
 1,675.92 
 2,305.77 
 69.45 
 14.92 
 311.10 
 19.03 
 4,396.19 
As at 1st April, 2022
 298.90 
 1,752.57 
 23.85 
 3.03 
 0.31 
 - 
 2,078.66 
Additions
 794.44 
 2,252.30 
 108.20 
 49.85 
 45.37 
 13.03 
 3,263.19 
Disposals / capitalizations
 994.68 
 3,232.38 
 120.52 
 52.29 
 27.69 
 13.03 
 4,440.58 
As at 31st March, 2023
 98.66 
 772.49 
 11.53 
 0.59 
 17.99 
 - 
 901.27 
a) 
Ageing of Capital work-in-progress as at 31.03.2023
Capital work-in-progress
 Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
Total
Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 901.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 901.26 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
b) 
Ageing of Capital work-in-progress as at 31.03.2022
Capital work-in-progress
 Amount of Capital work-in-progress for a period of 
Total
Less than 1 year 
 1-2 years 
 2-3 years 
More than 3 years
Projects in progress
 2,078.66 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2,078.66 
Projects temporarily suspended
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
4. 
Right of use assets
Particulars
 Leasehold Building 
 Vehicle 
Total
Lease liabilities
As at 1st April, 2021
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Additions
 131.09 
 68.57 
 199.66 
 194.59 
Depreciation
 30.24 
 10.18 
 40.42 
 - 
Finance cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6.77 
Lease payments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (40.20)
As at 31st March, 2022
 100.84 
 58.40 
 159.24 
 161.16 
Additions
 25.85 
 18.87 
 44.73 
 44.73 
Cancellation of Lease
 58.89 
 58.89 
 (47.34)
Depreciation
 46.69 
 24.43 
 71.12 
 - 
Acc. Dep. Of cancelled lease
 13.50 
 13.50 
Finance cost
 - 
 - 
 - 
 8.57 
Lease payments
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (76.12)
As at 31st March, 2023
 34.61 
 52.84 
 87.46 
 90.99 
Non-current portion
 33.19 
Current portion
 57.81 
As at 31st March, 2023
 90.99 
Non-current portion
 85.30 
Current portion
 75.86 
As at 31st March, 2022
 161.16 
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities are disclosed in Note 43.
The effective interest rate for lease liabilities is 7.55%.
Amounts recognised in the statement of profit & loss related to leases are as under:
Particulars
Year ended 31.03.2023
Year ended 31.03.2022
Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets
 93.74 
 40.42 
Interest expense on lease liabilities
 8.57 
 6.77 
Expense relating to short term and low value leases (included in other expenses)- 
Ref. Note 36
 37.94 
 35.11 
Total
 140.26 
 82.30 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
197
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
7. Other financial assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
 As at 
31.03.2023
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Security Deposits
 216.79 
 182.54 
 - 
 - 
Bank deposits (having maturity more than 12 months)
 244.87 
 332.02 
 21.38 
 - 
Bank deposits with original maturity of more than three months but less 
than 12 months
 - 
 - 
 92.29 
 125.97 
Interest accrued on deposits
 - 
 - 
 35.18 
 3.28 
Insurance claim receivable
 - 
 - 
 43.77 
 42.70 
Share based Payments to employees of Joint Venture
 - 
 - 
 1.85 
 - 
Other financial assets
 - 
 - 
 6.00 
 - 
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss
Foreign exchange forward contracts not qualifying or not designated in 
hedge accounting relationships
 - 
 - 
 6.71 
 3.44 
Total
 461.66 
 514.56 
 207.18 
 175.39 
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss
Derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss reflect the positive change in fair value of those foreign exchange forward 
contracts that are not designated in hedge relationships, but are, nevertheless, intended to reduce the level of foreign currency risk for 
expected sales and purchases.
Bank deposits (having maturity more than 12 months)
Bank deposits are held as security against letter of credit and bank guarantees.
8. Other non-current assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
Capital advances
 941.91 
 885.87 
Other non current assets
 79.55 
 145.27 
Total
 1,021.46 
 1,031.14 
9. Inventories
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Raw materials
 3,317.81 
 3,333.35 
Stock in trade
 202.87 
 151.63 
Work-in-progress
 2,354.65 
 640.11 
Finished goods
 1,366.57 
 1,100.01 
Stores and spares
 365.18 
 372.22 
Goods in transit
 5.43 
 8.53 
Total 
 7,612.51 
 5,605.85 
Note:
For mode of valuation refer accounting policy number 2.3 (v)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
196
 
(` in lacs)
6. Investments
 Non-current 
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
(a) Investment in equity shares of joint venture company at cost
Unquoted
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited 4,85,00,000 (31st March, 2022 : 
4,85,00,000) equity shares of `10 each fully paid up
 3,532.58 
 4,293.71 
 - 
 - 
 3,532.58 
 4,293.71 
 - 
 - 
Other Investments
(b) Investment in Preference Shares at fair value through profit or loss
Unquoted
0.001% Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of Motovolt Mobility 
Private Limited: 4,87,800 (March 31, 2022: Nil) Shares of ` 10 each fully 
paid up #
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(c) Investment in mutual fund at fair value through profit or loss
Quoted
ICICI Mutual Fund: 2,69,773.741 (March 31, 2022: 2,69,827.123) units
 - 
 - 
 63.70 
 60.50 
PGIM Flexi Cap: 26,138.897 (March 31, 2022: 9,157.73) units
 - 
 - 
 6.43 
 2.35 
ABSL Multicap: 51,895.347 (March 31, 2022: 17,204.56) units
 - 
 - 
 6.20 
 2.10 
Aditya Birla Sunlife Mutual Fund: 3,29,56,490.22 (March 31, 2022: 
2,65,773.41) units
 - 
 - 
 338.77 
 195.45 
Canara Robecco Emerging Equities: 3964.579 (March 31, 2022: 1,520.03) 
units
 - 
 - 
 6.51 
 2.41 
Axis Midcap: 10079.176 (March 31, 2022: 3,616.94) units
 - 
 - 
 6.48 
 2.44 
SBI Contra: 3175.039 (March 31, 2022: 1,232.25) units
 - 
 - 
 7.19 
 2.46 
Mirae Asset Focused Equity:33551.121 (March 31, 2022: 10,647.51) units
 - 
 - 
 5.98 
 2.03 
HDFC Large And Midcap Fund: 1426.197 (March 31, 2022: Nil) units
 - 
 - 
 2.74 
 - 
Mahindra Manulife Multi Cap Badhat Yojana: 4882.258 (March 31, 2022: 
nil) units
 - 
 - 
 1.48 
 - 
Total
 3,732.58 
 4,293.71 
 445.48 
 269.74 
# Cost treated as Fair value. These preference share are non cumulative. 
Aggregate value of unquoted investments
 3,732.58 
 4,293.71 
Aggregate amount of impairment in value of investments
 - 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
199
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
11. Cash and cash equivalents
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022 
Balances with banks
On current accounts
 42.14 
 21.47 
Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 16.68 
 - 
Cash on hand
 23.78 
 22.54 
Total
 82.60 
 44.01 
For the purpose of statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprises the following:
Balance with banks 
On current accounts 
42.14
 21.47 
Deposits with maturity of less than 3 months
 16.68 
 - 
Cash on hand 
23.78
 22.54 
Total 
 41.32 
 44.01 
12. Other balances with banks
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Bank Balance: unpaid dividend account (earmarked balances with banks)
 11.38 
 13.22 
Total
 11.38 
 13.22 
13. Loans
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022
Loans to related parties
(Considered good, unsecured)
 - 
 - 
Other loans
(Unsecured, considered good)
Loan to staff
 - 
 0.52 
Labour welfare receivable
 8.37 
 - 
Total
 8.37 
 0.52 
Loans are non-derivative financial assets which generate a fixed or variable interest income for the Company. The carrying value may be 
affected by changes in the credit risk of the counterparties.
14. Current tax assets (net)
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Income tax provision  
(net of provision for income tax ` 119.58 lakhs)
 113.82 
 123.78 
Total
 113.82 
 123.78 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
198
 
(` in lacs)
10. Trade receivables
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
Unsecured, considered good
 6,514.83 
 5,588.28 
Unsecured, credit impaired
 0.04 
 0.01 
Less: Provision for doubtful receivables
 3.87 
 2.08 
Total 
 6,511.00 
 5,586.22 
Trade receivables
As at 31.03.2023
Outstanding 
for 
following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Other
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 5,557.21 
 608.94 
 347.40 
 1.28 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,514.83 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.04 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 5,557.21 
 608.94 
 347.40 
 1.32 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,514.87 
Trade receivables
As at 31.03.2022
Outstanding 
for 
following 
periods from due date of 
payment
Not Due
Less than 
6 months
6 months 
-1 year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 
3 years
Other
Total
(i) Undisputed Trade receivables 
– considered good
 4,395.31 
 1,034.79 
 158.19 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,588.28 
(ii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– which have significant increase 
in credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iii) Undisputed Trade Receivables 
– credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 0.01 
(iv) Disputed Trade Receivables–
considered good
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(v) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
which have significant increase in 
credit risk
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(vi) Disputed Trade Receivables – 
credit impaired
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,395.31 
 1,034.79 
 158.19 
 0.01 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 5,588.30 
Trade receivables
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
Trade receivable are due from Directors or other officers of the Company either severally or 
jointly with any other person
 - 
 - 
Due from firms or private companies respectively in which any Director is a partner, a director 
or a member
 168.67 
 259.07 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
201
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
(` in lacs)
C. 
Following shareholders hold equity shares more than 5% of the total equity shares of the Company:
Name of Shareholder
As at  
31.03.2023
As at  
31.03.2022
Number of 
shares held
% of holding 
in class
Number of 
shares held
% of holding 
in class
Ajay Kumar Jain
 3,867,180 
27.62%
 3,867,180 
27.62%
Abhishek Jain
 1,002,404 
7.16%
 1,002,404 
7.16%
Kalindi Farms Private Limited
 3,200,000 
22.86%
 1,908,482 
13.63%
D. 
 Aggregate number and class of shares for a period of 5 years immediately preceding pursuant to contract(s) without 
payment being received in cash
Particulars
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Aggregate number and class of shares for a period of 5 years immediately preceding pursuant to 
contract(s) without payment being received in cash
Nil
Nil
E. 
Details of Promoter’s Shareholding
S. No.
Promoter’s Name
As at 31.03.2023
As at 31.03.2022
%age change 
during the 
year
S. No.
Promoter’s Name
 No. of 
Shares 
% of shares 
held
 No. of 
Shares 
% of shares 
held
1
Ajay Kumar Jain 
 3,867,180 
27.62%
 3,867,180 
27.62%
0.00%
2
Abhishek Jain 
 1,002,404 
7.16%
 1,002,404 
7.16%
0.00%
3
Vinay Kumari Jain
 533,890 
3.81%
 533,890 
3.81%
0.00%
4
Ajay Kumar Jain (HUF)
 90,123 
0.64%
 90,123 
0.64%
0.00%
5
Rashi Jain 
 45,540 
0.33%
 45,540 
0.33%
0.00%
6
Kalindi Farms Private Limited
 3,200,000 
22.86%
 1,908,482 
13.63%
67.67%
7
Sri Lehra Jewellers Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 557,463 
3.98%
-100%
8
Advance Commotrade Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 222,500 
1.59%
-100%
9
Littlestar Tradelinks Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 198,010 
1.41%
-100%
10
Prism Suppliers Private Limited 
 193,700 
1.38%
 193,700 
1.38%
0%
11
Smart Commotrade Private Limited 
 168,030 
1.20%
 168,030 
1.20%
0%
12
Ratnakar Dealtrade Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 148,130 
1.06%
-100%
13
Nikunj Foods Private Limited 
 - 
 - 
 146,445 
1.05%
-100%
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
200
 
(` in lacs)
15. Other current assets
 
(Unsecured, considered good)
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022
Advance to suppliers & contractors
 191.99 
 503.10 
Prepaid expenses
 262.86 
 204.45 
Balances with government authorities
 1,181.10 
 1,003.14 
Other current assets
 0.20 
 6.29 
Total
 1,636.15 
 1,716.99 
16. Equity share capital
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Authorized
2,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each (2,00,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each)
 2,000.00 
 2,000.00 
Subscribed and fully paid up
1,40,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each (1,40,00,000 equity shares of ` 10 each)
 1,400.00 
 1,400.00 
Total
 1,400.00 
 1,400.00 
A. 
Reconciliation of the shares outstanding at the beginning and at the end of the year
Particulars
As at  
31.03.2023
As at  
31.03.2022
No. of shares 
Amount 
No. of shares 
Amount 
At the beginning of the year
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
Issued during the year
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Outstanding at the end of the year
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
 14,000,000 
 1,400.00 
B. 
Terms / Rights attached to equity shares
 
 The Company has only one class of equity share having face value of ` 10 per share. The holder of the equity shares is entitled to 
receive dividend as declared from time to time. The holder of share is entitled to voting rights proportionate to their share holding.
 
 In the event of liquidation of the Company, the holders of equity shares will be entitled to receive assets of the Company remaining 
after settlement of all liabilities. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
203
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
18. Borrowings
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Secured
Term loans
Term loan from banks
 8,448.46 
 7,763.41 
 136.18 
 982.27 
Term loan from financial institution
 393.97 
 760.18 
 499.71 
 809.38 
Vehicle loans
From banks
 83.45 
 106.77 
 
 - 
Less: Current maturities
 (1,761.08)
 (741.44)
1761.08
 741.44 
Working capital loans from banks (refer note III below)
 - 
 - 
 4,526.64 
 386.40 
Unsecured
Term loans
Term loan from financial institution
 827.22 
 162.73 
 - 
Total
 7,992.02 
 7,888.92 
 7,086.34 
 2,919.49 
Terms of borrowings 
Type of loan
Loan outstanding 
MCLR/ 
Repo. Rate
Spread
Repayment terms
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
(% per 
annum)
(% per 
annum)
AXIS bank term loan
 648.15 
 870.37 
 5.90 
 2.90 Repayable in 54 monthly installment `18.52 lakhs each.
 1,906.11 
 2,190.00 
 5.90 
 2.90 Repayable in 54 monthly installment ` 40.56 lakhs each.
 269.81 
 - 
 5.90 
 2.90 Repayable in 54 monthly installment ` 5.74 lakhs each.
HDFC bank term 
loan
 990.45 
 1,350.00 
 8.65 
 0.45 Repayable in 20 quarterly installment `90.00 lakhs each.
 173.24 
 236.84 
 8.65 
 0.45 Repayable in 19 quarterly installment `15.79 lakhs each.
 2,000.00 
 - 
 8.65 
 0.45 Repayable in 18 quarterly installment `111.11 lakhs each.
HSBC bank term 
loan
 328.43 
 464.33 
 8.30 
 0.25 Repayable in 60 monthly installment `11.33 lakhs each.
 1,341.67 
 1,610.00 
 8.30 
 0.25 Repayable in 60 monthly installment `26.83 lakhs each.
 344.50 
 390.00 
 8.30 
 0.25 Repayable in 60 monthly installment `6.50 lakhs each.
HSBC bank term 
loan
 567.05 
 641.26 
6.53
 2.00 Repayable in 20 quarterly installments
Term loan from 
financial institution 
(PICUP)
 893.68 
 1,569.56 
 - 
 - Repayable in one installment after seven years from the 
date of disbursement i.e. 27.12.2016 for ` 499.71 lakhs, 
02.11.2018 for ` 432.99 lakhs and 30.03.2022 for ` 109.49 
lakhs.
Term loan from 
financial institution 
(Tata Capital 
Financial Services 
Ltd.)
 989.95 
 - 
 10.75 
Repayable in 36 monthly installments
Vehicle loans from 
banks
 83.45 
 106.77 
 7.35 % to 
8.35% per 
annum 
 - 
Repayable in equal monthly instalments of 1 to 60 months
Working capital 
loans from banks- 
see Note vi & vii
 4,526.64 
 386.40 
 see Note 
vii 
On demand
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
202
 
(` in lacs)
17. Other equity
Amount
a) Securities premium
As at 1st April, 2021
 7,000.00 
Issue of equity shares
 - 
As at 31st March, 2022
 7,000.00 
Issue of equity shares
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 7,000.00 
b) Actuarial gains / losses on defined benefit employee obligations
As at 1st April, 2021
 (61.06)
Other comprehensive income for the period
 (11.01)
As at 31st March, 2022
 (72.07)
Other comprehensive income for the period
 (17.89)
As at 31st March, 2023
 (89.96)
c) Share based payments reserve
As at 1st April, 2022
SBP Reserve for the period
 48.76 
As at 31st March, 2023
 48.76 
d) General reserve
As at 1st April, 2021
 1,158.95 
Add: Transferred from retained earnings
 - 
As at 31st March, 2022
 1,158.95 
Add: Transferred from retained earnings
 - 
As at 31st March, 2023
 1,158.95 
e) Retained earnings
As at 1st April, 2021
 21,120.30 
Profit for the period
 (78.83)
Less: Final dividend paid
 (140.00)
As at 31st March, 2022
 20,901.47 
Profit for the period
 (594.43)
Less: Final dividend paid
 (350.00)
As at 31st March, 2023
 19,957.04 
Total other equity
As at 31st March, 2023
 28,074.79 
As at 31st March, 2022
 28,988.35 
Nature and purpose of reserves
a) 
Securities premium
 
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in securities premium.
b) 
Actuarial gains / losses on defined benefit employee obligations
 
 The amount of actuarial gains / losses recognised on post employment defined benefit employee obligations till date. Actuarial gains 
/ losses are differences between any changes in the liabilities over the year due to changes in actuarial assumptions or experience 
adjustments within the plans which are recognised in ‘other comprehensive income’ and subsequently not reclassified to the statement 
of profit and loss. 
c) 
Employee Stock Options reserve 
 
 The Company has share option scheme under which options to subscribe for the Company’s shares have been granted to certain 
executives and senior employees.
 
 The employee stock options reserve is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments provided to employees, 
including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration. Refer Note 36 for further details of these plans.
d) 
General reserve
 
 The Company has transferred a portion of the net profit of the Company before declaring dividend to general reserve pursuant to the 
earlier provision of Companies Act, 1956. Mandatory transfer to general reserve is not required under the Companies Act, 2013. 
e) 
Retained earnings
 
 Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date, less any transfers to general reserve, dividends or other 
distributions paid to investors.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
205
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
19. Other financial liabilities
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022 
Security deposits
 - 
 - 
 44.18 
 44.21 
Interest accrued on borrowings
 - 
 - 
 43.73 
 18.07 
Creditors for expenses
 - 
 - 
 537.90 
 566.33 
Unclaimed dividends
 - 
 - 
 10.82 
 12.67 
Fair Value of Financial Guarantee given
 0.01 
 7.77 
 - 
 - 
Total
 0.01 
 7.77 
 636.63 
 641.28 
 
(` in lacs)
20. Provisions
Non-current
Current
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Provision for employee benefits
Provision for gratuity
 434.66 
 491.56 
 74.65 
 66.64 
Provision for compensated absences (Refer note 35 for Ind AS 19 
disclosures)
 163.23 
 147.33 
 28.64 
 18.77 
Total
 597.89 
 638.89 
 103.29 
 85.41 
21. Income Taxes
 
 The major components of income tax expense for the year ended 31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022 are:
 
A. 
Statement of profit and loss
 
(i) 
Profit & loss section 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022
Current income tax charge
 119.58 
 121.42 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous year
 44.12 
 36.55 
Deferred tax
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences
 (80.56)
 (66.20)
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit & loss 
 83.14 
 91.77 
 
(ii) OCI section
 
 
Deferred tax related to items recognised in OCI during the year:
 As at 
31.03.2023 
As at 
31.03.2022 
Net (loss) / gain on remeasurements of defined benefit plans 
 6.28 
 3.89 
Income tax charged to OCI
 6.28 
 3.89 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
204
 
(` in lacs)
Note i: 
Term loans are secured by 1st charge on all movable assets (present and future) of the Company. Term loans are further secured by way 
of equitable mortgage on factory land and building of the Company situated at Kasna, Greater Noida. The charges are ranked pari-passu 
with the charges shared with other bankers.
Note ii:
Loan from State Owned Corporation, viz. The Pradeshiya Industrial & Investment Corporation of U.P. Limited is secured by bank 
guarantee equivalent to 100% of loan amount.
Note iii:
Secured by way of hypothecation of vehicles.
Note iv:
The Company has satisfied all the loan covenants.
Note v:
The Company has used the loans for the purpose for which these were taken.
Note vi:
Secured by hypothecation of inventories, book debts, other current assets, factory land and building situated at at B-206A, Sector-81, 
Phase-II, Noida.
Note vii:
Bank
Facility
 Limit
MCLR / Repo. Rate (% per annum)
Spread (% per annum)
HSBC Bank
CC
 2,100.00 
 8.35 
 0.85 
HDFC Bank
CC
 1,800.00 
 8.20 
 - 
ICICI Bank
CC
 2,200.00 
 8.35 
 0.10 
Axis Bank
CC
 100.00 
 8.90 
 - 
Details submitted in quarterly statement with the bankers vs books of accounts
Particulars 
Period
Amount 
as per 
Financials 
Amount 
filed with 
Bankers
Difference
Period
Amount 
as per 
Financials 
Amount 
filed with 
Bankers
Difference
Eligible 
Trade 
Receivables
31.03.2023
 6,559.45 
 6,559.45 
 - 30.09.2022
 5,897.03 
 5,897.03 
 - 
Eligible Inventories
31.03.2023
 7,409.63 
 7,409.63 
 - 30.09.2022
 7,650.75 
 7,650.75 
 - 
Other Current Assets 
reported to banks
31.03.2023
 1,805.11 
 1,805.11 
 - 30.09.2022
 2,195.84 
 2,195.84 
 - 
Any Other Financial 
Information 
reported 
to banks in quarterly 
returns
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 30.09.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
207
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
22. Trade payables
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
 total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises
 1,048.94 
 917.30 
 total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises
 5,276.57 
 3,940.75 
Total
 6,325.52 
 4,858.05 
Trade payables
As at 31.03.2023
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Not due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Other
Total
(i) MSME
 753.69 
 295.26 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  1,048.94 
(ii) Others
 3,804.99 
 1,471.58 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  5,276.57 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 4,558.68 
 1,766.84 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -  6,325.51 
Trade payables
As at 31.03.2022
Outstanding for following periods from 
due date of payment
Not due
Less than 1 
year
1-2 years
2-3 years
More than 3 
years
Other
Total
(i) MSME
 641.97 
 275.33 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 917.30 
(ii) Others
 2,684.47 
 1,225.82 
 30.46 
 - 
 - 
 -  3,940.75 
(iii) Disputed dues – MSME
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
(iv)Disputed dues - Others
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Total
 3,326.44 
 1,501.15 
 30.46 
 - 
 - 
 -  4,858.05 
23. Other current liabilities
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Advance from customers
 1,382.83 
 1,174.16 
Advance to staff
 5.75 
 11.64 
Statutory dues payable
 594.44 
 582.26 
Total
 1,983.02 
 1,768.06 
24. Revenue from operations
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Sale of products
Automotive parts
 47,866.25 
 39,088.45 
Moulds
 3,181.78 
 2,605.21 
 51,048.03 
 41,693.66 
Other operating revenue
GST subsidy
 63.19 
 463.49 
Investment subsidy on employment
 - 
 34.58 
Total
 51,111.22 
 42,191.73 
Performance obligations and remaining performance obligations
The remaining performance obligations disclosure provides the aggregate amount of the transaction price yet to be recognized as at the 
end of the reporting period and an explanation as to when the Company expects to recognize these amounts in revenue. The Company 
does not have any remaining performance obligations as at 31st March, 2023 (31st March, 2022: Nil). 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
206
 
(` in lacs)
 
B. 
 Reconciliation of tax expense and the accounting profit multiplied by India’s domestic tax rate for financial year ended 
31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022.
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022
Accounting profit before tax from continuing operations 
 250.63 
 362.22 
Profit / (loss) before tax from a discontinued operation
 - 
 - 
Accounting profit before income tax 
 250.63 
 362.22 
At India’s statutory income tax rate of 25.168% (31st March, 2022: 25.168%)
 254.70 
 166.13 
Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 
 44.12 
 36.55 
Net disallowances on which deferred tax is not recognised
 6.66 
 13.21 
Exempted income / deductions
 (18.25)
 (14.94)
Incremental deferred tax on account of financial assets and other items
 (31.44)
 (27.88)
Unabsorbed losses and depreciation carry forward and set off
 (172.64)
 (81.29)
 83.14 
 91.77 
Income tax expense reported in the statement of profit and loss
 83.14 
 91.77 
 83.14 
 91.77 
 
C. 
Deferred tax
 
 
Deferred tax relates to the following:
Particulars
Balance sheet
Statement of profit and 
loss / OCI
 As at 
31.03.2023
 As at 
31.03.2022
 Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 
 1,055.68 
 794.38 
 (261.30)
 (4.10)
Unabsorbed losses and depreciation
 (341.77)
 (69.73)
 272.02 
 25.51 
Provision for gratuity & leave encashment
 (260.89)
 (229.92)
 30.97 
 11.06 
Reversal of deferred tax assets on cancellation of leased assets
 0.44 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Present valuation of borrowings & other items of temporary differences
 55.40 
 100.56 
 45.16 
 37.63 
Deferred tax (expense) / income
 86.84 
 70.09 
Net deferred tax (assets) / liabilities
 508.87 
 595.29 
Reflected in the balance sheet as follows: 
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Deferred tax assets
 (602.65)
 (299.65)
Deferred tax liabilities
 1,111.52 
 894.94 
Deferred tax liabilities, net 
 508.87 
 595.29 
Reconciliation of deferred tax liabilities (net)
Particulars
 As at 
31.03.2023 
 As at 
31.03.2022 
Opening balance
 595.29 
 665.39 
Tax (income) / expense during the period recognized in profit & loss
 (80.57)
 (66.21)
Tax (income) / expense during the period recognized in OCI
 (6.28)
 (3.89)
Reversal of deferred tax assets on cancellation of leased assets
 0.44 
 - 
Closing balance
 508.87 
 595.29 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
209
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
29. Finance costs
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Interest expense
 1,164.56 
 639.21 
Other borrowing costs
 1.12 
 6.25 
Interest on lease liabilities
 7.45 
 5.07 
Total
 1,173.12 
 650.53 
30. Depreciation and amortization expense
 Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment (refer note 3)
 2,831.28 
 2,698.86 
Depreciation of Right of Use Assets (refer note 4)
 71.12 
 40.42 
Amortization of Intangible Assets (refer note 5)
 209.79 
 207.58 
Total
 3,112.19 
 2,946.85 
31. Other expenses
 Year ended 
31.03.2023 
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Other manufacturing expenses
Stores and spares consumed
 302.54 
 222.81 
Power and fuel
 1,336.10 
 922.94 
Factory expenses
 339.44 
 224.19 
Repair & maintenance
Building
 105.18 
 55.51 
Machinery
 378.44 
 413.29 
Others
 262.35 
 71.35 
Administrative and other expenses
Rent
 24.97 
 11.78 
Rates & taxes
 30.62 
 10.02 
Listing expenses
 5.60 
 2.50 
Postage & telephone expenses
 43.83 
 42.58 
Printing & stationery
 74.21 
 95.78 
Traveling & conveyance expenses
 718.36 
 511.86 
Office electricity & water
 10.73 
 6.87 
Insurance charges
 198.18 
 187.75 
Factory security 
 151.92 
 139.14 
Foreign exchange loss
 59.85 
 - 
Foreign exchange hedging loss
 - 
 2.26 
Legal & professional charges
 417.39 
 487.99 
Motor car expenses
 25.42 
 25.46 
Bank charges
 30.72 
 44.56 
Fees & subscription
 48.16 
 38.92 
Allowance for credit loss (net)
 2.88 
 0.29 
Corporate social responsibility expenses (refer note 51)
 60.93 
 59.00 
Directors sitting fees
 22.30 
 19.20 
Payment to collaborators / royalty
 299.21 
 278.28 
Charity & donation
 0.40 
 - 
Discount and short recovery
 0.67 
 7.31 
Miscellaneous expenses
 130.16 
 201.41 
Auditors' remuneration 
As audit fees
 9.70 
 9.30 
For tax audit, certification & tax representations
 3.96 
 7.21 
For other matters
 0.45 
 0.04 
Selling & distribution expenses
Freight & forwarding expenses
 1,904.64 
 1,373.37 
Advertisement, publicity & sales promotion
 65.48 
 50.70 
Total
 7,064.80 
 5,523.66 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
208
 
(` in lacs)
25. Other income
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Other non operating income 
Interest income
 61.50 
 29.65 
Profit on sale of investment
 12.10 
 0.07 
Gain on fair valuation of current investments
 1.65 
 4.17 
Foreign exchange gain
 35.82 
 45.02 
Profit on cancellation of lease
 1.50 
 - 
Rent received
 13.34 
 3.75 
Unclaimed balances written off
 6.14 
 9.64 
Allowance for credit loss (net)
 1.06 
 1.30 
Miscellaneous Income
 3.23 
 6.18 
Guarantee/ Commission Income
 4.73 
 - 
Total
 141.07 
 99.78 
26. Cost of materials consumed
Year Ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Raw material
 30,629.13 
 23,089.43 
Dyes & chemicals
 281.34 
 195.71 
Packing material
 944.86 
 638.23 
Steel
 508.77 
 653.96 
Dies & molds
 977.97 
 815.26 
Total
 33,342.07 
 25,392.59 
27. Changes in inventories of finished goods, stock in trade and work-in-progress
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Inventories at the beginning of the year
Work-in-progress
 513.55 
 346.04 
Work-in-progress of inhouse manufactured molds
 - 
 755.44 
Finished goods
 1,386.80 
 990.72 
Total inventories at the beginning of the year (A)
 1,900.35 
 2,092.20 
Inventories at the end of the year
Work-in-progress
 2,403.10 
 513.55 
Finished goods
 1,478.37 
 1,386.80 
Total inventories at the end of the year (B)
 3,881.46 
 1,900.35 
Total (A-B)
 (1,981.11)
 191.85 
28. Employee benefits expense
Year ended 
31.03.2023
 Year ended 
31.03.2022 
Salaries and wages
 7,297.82 
 6,499.45 
Contribution to provident and other funds
 339.39 
 330.89 
Staff welfare expenses
 653.38 
 393.47 
Total
 8,290.59 
 7,223.81 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
211
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
34. Employee benefit plans
 
Defined contribution plans - general description
 
 Retirement benefits in the form of provident fund, superannuation fund and national pension scheme are defined contribution 
schemes. The Company has no obligation, other than the contribution payable to the provident fund. The Company’s contribution to 
the provident fund is ` 265.04 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 257.13 lakhs).
 
Defined benefit plans - general description
 
Gratuity:
 
 The Company has a defined benefit gratuity plan. Gratuity is computed as 15 days salary, for every completed year of service or part 
thereof in excess of 6 months and is payable on retirement / termination / resignation. The benefit vests on the employee completing 
5 years of service. The Company makes provision of such gratuity asset / liability in the books of accounts on the basis of actuarial 
valuation as per the projected unit credit method.
 
 The following tables summarise the components of net benefit expense recognised in the statement of profit & loss and 
the funded status and amounts recognised in the balance sheet for the gratuity plan:
Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows:
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year
 887.40 
 832.04 
Current service cost
 80.74 
 76.04 
Past service cost
 - 
 1.53 
Interest cost
 63.72 
 56.58 
Benefits paid
 (71.61)
 (104.16)
Actuarial (gain) / loss on obligations-OCI
 22.39 
 25.37 
Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year
 982.64 
 887.40 
Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows:
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year
 329.19 
 160.29 
Contribution by employer
 166.00 
 159.00 
Benefits paid
 (19.29)
 - 
Expected interest income on plan assets
 - 
 - 
Actual gain / (loss) on plan asset
 16.73 
 9.90 
Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year
 492.63 
 329.19 
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets and defined benefit obligation
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Fair value of plan assets
 492.63 
 329.19 
Defined benefit obligation
 982.64 
 887.40 
Amount recognised in the balance sheet
 490.01 
 558.21 
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Current service cost
 80.74 
 76.04 
Net interest expense
 40.08 
 47.20 
Past service cost
 - 
 1.53 
Amount recognised in statement of profit and loss
 120.82 
 124.77 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
210
 
(` in lacs)
32. Components of other comprehensive income (OCI)
 
 The disaggregation of changes to OCI by each type of reserve in equity is shown below:
During the year ended 31st March, 2023
Total
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans
 (24.97)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint venture
 0.79 
Income tax effect
 6.28 
Total
 (17.90)
During the year ended 31st March, 2022
Total
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on defined benefit plans 
 (15.47)
Share of other comprehensive income of associates and joint venture
 0.57 
Income tax effect
 3.89 
Total
 (11.01)
33. Earnings Per Share (EPS)
 
 Basic and Diluted EPS amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company by the 
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS are calculated by dividing the profit for the year 
attributable to the equity holders of the Company by weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year plus the 
weighted average number of equity shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential equity shares into equity 
shares.
 
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted EPS computations:
Particulars
Year ended 
31.03.2023
Year ended 
31.03.2022
Profit for the year as per statement of profit & loss
 (594.44)
 (78.84)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company for basic earnings
 (594.44)
 (78.84)
No. of Shares
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic EPS
 14,000,000 
 14,000,000 
Effect of dilution
 84,797 
 - 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating diluted EPS
 14,084,797 
 14,000,000 
Earnings per equity share 
Basic (in `)
 (4.25)
 (0.56)
Diluted (in `)
 (4.25)
 (0.56)
Face value of each equity share (in `)
 10 
 10 
Weighted average number of equity shares in calculating basic diluted EPS
 14,084,797 
 14,000,000 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
213
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
35. Employee Share-based Payments
 
 Refer Note l for accounting policy on Employee Share-based Payments
 
 The Company has formulated employee share-based payment schemes with the objective to reward the employees for their 
association and performance, to motivate them to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Company, to create a variable pay 
structure for the different employees, incentivize them in line with Company’s performance, to retain and motivate senior and critical 
human resources, to promote loyalty to the Company and to achieve sustained growth and create shareholder’s value by aligning 
the interests of the employees with the long-term interests of the Company
 
 The shareholders of the Company by way of special resolution dated 16th September, 2022 approved the Plan authorizing the 
Committee to Grant not exceeding 7,00,000 Options to the eligible Employees in one or more tranches, from time to time, which in 
aggregate shall be exercisable into not more than 7,00,000 Shares of face value of ` 10 each fully paid up (which is 5% of the paid 
up capital of the Company as on date), with each such Option conferring a right upon the Employees to apply for one Share in the 
Company in accordance with the terms and conditions as may be decided under the Plan.
 
 The maximum number of Options that may be granted per Employee and in aggregate shall be decided by the Committee depending 
upon the designation and the appraisal/ assessment process. However, the Grant of Options to identified Employees, shall not, at 
any time exceed the total Option pool size approved by the shareholders for ESOP 2022.
 
 This Employee Stock Option Plan is called ‘PPAP Employee Stock Option Plan 2022’ (“ESOP 2022”/ “Plan”) : 
The ESOP 2022 is established with effect from date of shareholders’ approval i.e. 16th September, 2022 on which the shareholders 
of the Company have approved it and shall continue to be in force until (i) its termination by the Board/ Committee as per provisions 
of Applicable Laws, or (ii) the date on which all of the Options available for issuance under the ESOP 2022 have been issued and 
exercised, whichever is earlier.
 
 The fair value at grant date of stock options granted during the year ended 31/03/2022 was ` 196.60 . The fair valuation has been carried 
out by an independent valuer by applying Black and Scholes Model. The inputs to the model include the exercise price, the term of 
option, the share price at grant date and the expected volatility, expected dividends and the risk free rate of interest for terms of options. 
The details of options granted, the key assumptions for Fair Value on the date of grant are as under:
Particulars
ESOP 2022
Grant Date
12.11.2022
Vesting period
 18 months 
Share price on grant date (`)
 205.50 
Risk free interest rate (zero-coupon government issues of the country with a remaining 
term equal to the expected term of the option)
7.51%
Dividend Yield
0.73%
Expected Volatility (Standard Deviation) The measure of volatility used in the Black 
Scholes options Pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously 
compounded rates of return on the company's share over life of the options
42.05%
Fair Value of option on grant date
 196.60 
Average time to maturity of option
 1.75 
Exercise Price
 10 
Options outstanding at beginning of the year
 - 
Options granted during the year
 89,288 
Options forfeited/ lapsed during the year
 - 
Options vested during the year
 - 
Options exercised during the year
 - 
Options expired during the year
 - 
Options outstanding at year end
 89,288 
Options vested and exercisable at year end
 - 
Vesting conditions
 As per policy approved by shareholders 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
212
 
(` in lacs)
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions
 - 
 - 
Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions
 (16.92)
 (11.09)
Remeasurement return on plan assets excluding amount included in interest income
 - 
 - 
Actuarial (gain) / loss arising from experience adjustments
 39.32 
 36.46 
Amount recognised in other comprehensive income
 22.39 
 25.37 
 
The principal assumptions used in determining gratuity liability for the Company’s plans are shown below:
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Discount rate
7.36%
7.18%
Expected rate of return on plan assets
7.36%
7.18%
Future salary increases
5.25%
5.25%
Attrition rate (up to 30 years)
3.00%
3.00%
Attrition rate (from 31 to 44 years)
2.00%
2.00%
Attrition rate (above 44 years)
1.00%
1.00%
Retirement age
58 years
58 years
 
 A quantitative sensitivity analysis for significant assumption as at 31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022 is as shown below:
Gratuity plan
Sensitivity level
Impact on defined benefit 
obligation
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Assumptions
Discount rate
+0.50%
+0.50%
 (45.21)
 (41.72)
-0.50%
-0.50%
 48.64 
 44.96 
Future salary increases
+0.50%
+0.50%
 48.74 
 45.12 
-0.50%
-0.50%
 (45.86)
 (42.20)
 
 The sensitivity analyses above have been determined based on a method that extrapolates the impact on defined benefit obligation 
as a result of reasonable changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. Sensitivities due to mortality and 
withdrawals are insignificant and hence ignored. Sensitivities as to rate of inflation, rate of increase of pensions in payments, rate of 
increase of pensions before retirement & life expectancy are not applicable being a lump sum benefit on retirement.
 
Company’s best estimate of expense for the next Annual reporting period is ` 130.28 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 130.09 lakhs).
The expected maturity analysis of undiscounted gratuity is as follows:
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Within the next 12 months (next annual reporting period) 
74.65
66.70
Between 1 to 2 years
20.49
42.50
Between 2 to 3 years
40.08
24.90
Between 3 to 4 years
53.38
35.35
Between 4 to 5 years
40.75
44.43
Between 5 to 6 years
47.36
36.44
Over 6 years
705.93
637.11
Total expected payments 
 982.64 
 887.42 
 
 The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 16.42 years (31st March, 
2022: 16.44 years)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
215
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
38. Contingent liabilities
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Contingent liabilities not provided for in respect of
Letters of guarantees
 1,593.94 
 2,832.00 
Letters of credit 
 - 
 171.30 
Income tax appeal 
For assessment year 2017-18
 41.37 
 41.37 
GST appeals (includes excise and sales tax demands)
 73.27 
 114.10 
Show Cause Notice for short payment of excise duty
 18.95 
 410.05 
Demand towards delay in commencement of production along with stipulated investment Company's 
plant at Pathredi claimed by Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation (RIICO)
 - 
 103.57 
Total
 1,727.53 
 3,672.39 
Notes:
(i) 
 A demand of ` 41.37 lakhs has been raised for the assessment year 2017-18 for disallowance of 25% of royalty expense.The 
company has filed an appeal before Hon’ble CIT(Appeals) against the order of disallowance of the royalty amount.
(ii) 
 The Central sales tax assessment for the assessment year 2004-05 was completed and a balance demand of ` 0.45 lakhs was 
raised by the department. Appeal against the same is pending before the Joint Commissioner of Sales Tax (Appeals) and stay 
granted vide order no F/PA/Jt. Comm. (KDU) /02/Stay/ 410-411 dated 18.08.06.
(iii) 
 The Joint commissioner, Commercial Tax,Noida has demanded CST of `5.24 lakhs on stock transfers of iron and steel for job work 
got done during the A.Y. 2011-12. We have filed an appeal before the Additional Commissioner (Appeals) against the said demand. 
The Additional Commissioner (Appeals) has granted stay of 50% of the said demand. We have filed an appeal against the order 
of Additional Commissioner (Appeals) before Commercial Tax, Tribunal (Noida, U.P.). The Tribunal has set aside the demand and 
passed the order on 17th February, 2023 in favour of the Company and directed the Dept. to refund the deposited amount.
(iv) 
 The Joint Commissioner,Commercial Tax, Noida has demanded `31.16 lakhs towards shortfall of Form ‘C ‘ and `4.43 lakhs 
towards CST on stock transfers of iron and steel for job work got done for the A.Y. 2012-13. We filed an appeal before the 
Additional Commissioner (Appeals), against the said demand. The Additional Commissioner (Appeals) granted stay of 50% 
of the total demand. We have filed an appeal against the order of Additional Commissioner (Appeals) before Commercial Tax 
Tribunal, Noida, U.P..The Tribunal has set aside the demand and passed the order on 29th March, 2023 in favour of the Company 
and directed the Dept. to refund the deposited amount.
(v) 
 Demand of excise duty of ` 1.06 lakhs along with penalty of ` 1.06 lakhs was imposed on the Company by Additional 
Commissioner, Central Excise, Delhi, for cenvat credit taken on payment of duty through DEPB license, under the Central 
Excise Act, 1944. The Company had filed an appeal against the aforesaid order with Commissioner of Central Excise, Okhla. The 
Commissioner of central excise has rejected the appeal. Thereafter, the Company has filed the appeal with the Central Excise 
& Service Tax Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) and the appeal is pending.
(vi) 
 Demand of excise duty of ` 35.36 lakhs along with penalty of ` 35.36 lakhs was imposed on the Company by Additional 
Commissioner, Central Excise, Delhi, for cenvat credit taken on payment of duty through DEPB license, under the Central Excise 
Act, 1944 and was outstanding as on 31.03.2016.The Company had filed the appeal with the Central Excise & Service Tax 
Appellate Tribunal (CESTAT) and CESTAT has decided the case in favour of Company and set aside the demand. The Company 
approached the Delhi High Court against the order of CESTAT and the High Court has remanded the case back to CESTAT for 
hearing it again. The matter is pending in CESTAT, Delhi.
(vii) 
 The Company has received show cause notice dated 12.03.2019 from Directorate General of Goods and Service Tax Intelligence, 
Gurugram, Zonal Unit, alleging short payment of central excise duty (including education cess and S & H cess) to the tune of `410.05 
lakhs for the period F.Y. 2013-14 to 30.06.2019 on the value of design / drawings / specifications supplied by Maruti Suzuki India 
Limited on FOC basis to the Company. `384.57 lakhs relates to B-45, B-206A and B-4, Kasna, Uttar Pradesh Plants and `25.47 
lakhs relates to Pathredi plant. However, the jurisdiction of the case has been transferred from Gurugram, Haryana to the Additional 
Director General (Adjudiaction) DGGSTI, New Delhi on 26.07.2019.The Company has disputed the matter and filed the reply with 
the Additional Director General (Adjudication) of Goods & Service Tax Intelligence, New Delhi on 26.02.2021 to quash the notice. 
Being considered the reply, the Additional Director General (Adjudication), New Delhi has passed an order no.48-67/2022-CE dated 
29-07-2022 and dropped the demand of `366.72 Lakhs for our B-45, B-206A & B-4, Kasna, U.P. Plants and also dropped the 
demand of `24.37 lakhs for our Pathredi Plant. Further, the Company has challenged the remaining demand of `17.85 lakhs for our 
U.P. Plants and `1.10 lakhs for our Pathredi Plant and filed an appeal before the Central Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal 
(CESTAT), R K Puram, New Delhi on 15th November, 2022. The matter is pending in CESTAT, New Delhi.
(viii)  RIICO has raised a demand of `103.57 lakhs towards additional cost of land due to delay in commencement of production 
activities at its plant at Pathredi. The Company had disputed the matter with RIICO. This demand has been settled availing the 
amnesty scheme of RIICO.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
214
 
(` in lacs)
36. Leases
 
Operating leases taken
 
 The Company has taken certain building on operating lease arrangements. The lease expense recognized in the statement of profit 
and loss is ` 20.99 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 11.78 lakhs). The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases are as follows:
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Not later than one year
 10.78 
 6.93 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 - 
 - 
Later than five years
 - 
 - 
 10.78 
 6.93 
 
Operating leases given
 
 The Company has given certain properties on operating lease arrangements. The lease income recognised in the statement of profit 
and loss is ` 13.34 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 3.75 lakhs). The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating 
leases are as follows:
As at 
31.03.2023
As at 
31.03.2022
Not later than one year
 13.34 
 48.31 
Later than one year and not later than five years
 - 
 - 
Later than five years
 - 
 - 
 13.34 
 48.31 
37. Commitments
 
(i) 
 Retention charges and capital commitments (net of advances) are ` 473.64 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 417.34 lakhs)
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
217
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
Net outstanding balance:
Related Party
Period
Related Parties 
where common 
control exists
Joint 
Ventures
Wholly 
Owned 
Subsidiaries
Other Related Party- Post 
employment benefit plan 
of the Company
Total
Trade receivable
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 67.32 
 - 
 - 
 67.32 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Trade payable
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
31.03.2022
 - 
 72.19 
 - 
 - 
 72.19 
Contribution 
to 
fund: 
Employer's 
contribution towards gratuity fund
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group 
Gratuity Fund Trust
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 465.71 
 465.71 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 319.00 
 319.00 
Details relating to remuneration of KMP & their relatives
Name of KMP
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Short-term employee benefits
Sitting fees
Short-term employee benefits
Sitting fees
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain
 120.57 
 - 
 120.57 
 - 
Mr. Abhishek Jain
 74.77 
 - 
 127.77 
 - 
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain
 - 
 3.20 
 - 
 4.80 
Details relating to remuneration of KMP other than MD / Manager / Whole Time Director
Name of KMP
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Short-term employee benefits
Sitting fees
Short-term employee benefits
Sitting fees
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi
 - 
 6.40 
 - 
 6.00 
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta
 - 
 6.00 
 - 
 6.00 
Mrs. Celine George
 - 
 4.00 
 - 
 2.40 
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi
 - 
 1.20 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
216
 
(` in lacs)
39. Related party disclosures
 
A. 
List of related parties
(a) Joint Venture
1.
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
(b) Key Management Personnel (KMP)
1
Mr. Ajay Kumar Jain, Chairman & Managing Director
2
Mr. Abhishek Jain, CEO & Managing Director
3
Mr. Bhuwan Kumar Chaturvedi, Independent Director
4
Mr. Pravin Kumar Gupta, Independent Director
5
Mrs. Celine George, Independent Director
6
Mrs. Vinay Kumari Jain, Non-Executive Director
7
Mr. Deepak Kumar Sethi, Independent Director (w.e.f 04.02.2023)
8
Mr. Sachin Jain, Chief Financial Officer (w.e.f 10.05.2021)
9
Mrs. Sonia Bhandari, Company Secretary (upto 18.09.2021)
10
Mrs Shivani Sehgal, Company Secretary (w.e.f 12.11.21 to 25.04.2022)
11
Ms. Pankhuri Agarwal, Company Secretary (w.e.f 13.05.2022)
(c)  Related Parties in the group where common control exists
1.
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation
(d) Wholly owned subsidiaries
1.
Elpis Components Distributors Private Limited (formerly PPAP 
Automotive Systems Private Limited)
2.
PPAP Technology Limited (formerly PPAP Technology Private Limited 
and PPAP Automotive Technology Private Limited)
(e)  Other Related Party-Post employment benefit plan of the Company
1.
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group Gratuity Fund Trust
 
The following transactions were carried out with related parties in the ordinary course of business:
Related party transactions
Period
Related Parties 
where common 
control exists
Joint 
Ventures
Wholly 
Owned 
Subsidiaries
Other Related Party-Post 
employment benefit plan 
of the Company
Total
CSR expenses paid
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation
31.03.2023
 60.94 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 60.94 
31.03.2022
 59.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 59.00 
Material / licence purchases 
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 563.99 
 - 
 - 
 563.99 
31.03.2022
 - 
 621.23 
 - 
 - 
 621.23 
Investment in equity shares
PPAP Technology Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 749.93 
 - 
 749.93 
Receipts for other services*
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 120.77 
 - 
 - 
 120.77 
31.03.2022
 - 
 116.94 
 - 
 - 
 116.94 
Sales
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
31.03.2023
 - 
 172.06 
 - 
 172.06 
31.03.2022
 - 
 113.40 
 - 
 - 
 113.40 
Contribution to fund: Employer's contribution 
towards gratuity fund
PPAP Automotive Limited Employees Group 
Gratuity Fund Trust
31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 166.00 
 166.00 
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 159.00 
 159.00 
*Other services include management support fee, reimbursement of expenses, job work charges, interest received on loan given and rental income.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
219
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
42. Fair values measurements
 
(i) 
Financial instruments by category
Particulars
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
FVTPL
Amortized 
cost
FVTPL
Amortized 
cost
Financial assets
Investments*
 - in mutual funds
 445.48 
 - 
 269.74 
 - 
 - in unquoted preference shares
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Other financial assets
 - 
 668.84 
 - 
 689.95 
Trade receivables
 - 
 6,511.00 
 - 
 5,586.22 
Cash and cash equivalents
 - 
 82.60 
 - 
 44.01 
Other balances with banks
 - 
 11.38 
 - 
 13.22 
Loans
 - 
 8.37 
 - 
 0.52 
Foreign exchange forward contracts
 6.71 
 3.44 
Total financial assets
 6.71 
 7,282.18 
 273.18 
 6,333.92 
Financial liabilities
Borrowings (non current)
 - 
 7,992.02 
 7,888.92 
 7,888.92 
Borrowings (current)
 - 
 7,086.34 
 2,919.49 
 2,919.49 
Lease Liabilities
 - 
 90.99 
 - 
 161.16 
Trade payables
 - 
 6,325.52 
 - 
 4,858.05 
Other financial liabilities (non current)
 - 
 0.01 
 - 
 7.77 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 - 
 636.63 
 - 
 641.28 
Total financial liabilities
 - 
 22,131.51 
 10,808.41 
 16,476.67 
*Investment value excludes investment in joint venture of ` 3,732.58 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 4,293.71 lakhs) and investment 
in wholly owned subsidiary companies of `1429.92 lakhs (31st March, 2022 `1,429.92 lakhs) which are shown at cost in balance 
sheet as per Ind AS 27 ‘ Separate Financial Statements’.
i) 
 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged 
in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. The following methods and 
assumptions were used to estimate the fair value.
ii) 
 The fair values of the Company’s interest-bearing borrowings are determined by using effective interest rate (EIR) method 
using discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance 
risk as at 31st March, 2023 was assessed to be insignificant.
iii) 
 Long-term receivables/payables are evaluated by the Company based on parameters such as interest rates, risk factors, 
individual creditworthiness of the counterparty and the risk characteristics of the financed project. Based on this evaluation, 
allowances are taken into account for the expected credit losses of these receivables.
iv)  The fair value of security deposit has been estimated using DCF model which consider certain assumptions viz. forecast 
cash flows, discount rate, credit risk and volatility.
v) 
 The fair values of the investment in mutual fund has been determined based on net assets value (NAV) available in open 
market.
vi) The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
vii)  Cost of unquoted preference shares has been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because of a wide 
range of possible fair value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range. These 
investments in preference shares are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long-term strategic purpose.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
218
 
(` in lacs)
40. Segment information
 
 According to Ind AS 108, identification of operating segments is based on Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM) approach for 
making decisions about allocating resources to the segment and assessing its performance. Based on the consideration of dominant 
sources and nature of risk & returns, the company is considered an automotive components manufacturer. Most of the activities are 
revolving around this business and accordingly has only one reportable segment. The geographical location of its main operations 
and the internal organization / reporting and management structure supports such treatment.
41. Dues to micro and small enterprises
 
 The dues to micro and small enterprises as required under the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 
(MSMED Act, 2006), to the extent information available with the Company is given below:
Particulars
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
(i)
The principal amount and the interest due thereon remaining unpaid to any supplier as at 
the end of each accounting year:
Principal amount due to micro and small enterprises
 1,048.94 
 917.30 
Interest due on above
 - 
 - 
(ii)
The amount of interest paid by the buyer in terms of Section 16 of the MSMED Act, 2006 
along with the amounts of the payment made to the supplier beyond the appointed day 
during each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(iii)
The amount of interest due and payable for the period of delay in making payment (which 
have been paid but beyond the appointed day during the year) but without adding the 
interest specified under the MSMED Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
(iv)
The amount of interest accrued and remaining unpaid at the end of each accounting year.
 - 
 - 
(v)
The amount of further interest remaining due and payable even in the succeeding years, 
until such date when the interest dues as above are actually paid to the small enterprise for 
the purpose of disallowance as a deductible expenditure under Section 23 of the MSMED 
Act, 2006.
 - 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
221
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
 
(` in lacs)
43. Financial risk management objectives and policies
 
 The Company’s principal financial liabilities, comprise borrowings, trade payables, and creditors for expenses. The Company’s 
principal financial assets include investments, long term deposits, trade receivables, cash and short-term deposits / loan that derive 
directly from its operations.
 
 The Company is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company’s senior management oversees the management 
of these risks. The Company’s senior management is supported by the Board of Directors that advises on financial risks and the 
appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Company. The Board provides assurance to the Company’s management 
that the Company’s financial risk activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and that financial risks are identified, 
measured and managed in accordance with the Company’s policies and risk objectives. The management reviews and agrees 
policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised below.
 
i. 
Market risk
 
 
 Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market 
prices. Market risk comprises three types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk 
and commodity risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include, deposits and FVTPL investments.
 
 
 The sensitivity analysis of the above mentioned risk in the following sections relate to the position as at 31st March, 2023 and 
31st March, 2022.
 
 
 The analyses exclude the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying values of gratuity and other post-retirement 
obligations; provisions; and the non-financial assets and liabilities.
 
 
The following assumptions have been made in calculating the sensitivity analyses:
 
 
- 
 The sensitivity of the relevant profit or loss item is the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. This is 
based on the financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31st March, 2023 and 31st March, 2022.
 
 
A. 
Interest rate risk
 
 
 
 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes 
in market interest rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the 
Company’s debt obligations with floating interest rates.
Increase / decrease in basis points
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2023
INR
+50
 (76.06)
INR
-50
 76.06 
31.03.2022
INR
+50
 (59.15)
INR
-50
 59.15 
 
 
 
 The assumed movement in basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market 
environment, showing a significantly higher volatility than in prior years.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
220
 
(` in lacs)
 
(ii) Fair value hierarchy
 
 
 All financial instruments for which fair value is recognised or disclosed are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described 
as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurements as a whole.
 
 
 Level 1: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets.This includes listed equity instruments, traded bonds 
and mutual funds that have quoted price. The fair value of all equity instruments (including bonds) which are traded in the stock 
exchanges is valued using the closing price as at the reporting period. The mutual funds are valued using the closing NAV.
 
 
 Level 2: The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market (for example, traded bonds, over-the 
counter derivatives) is determined using valuation techniques which maximise the use of observable market data and rely as 
little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the 
instrument is included in level 2.
 
 
 Level 3: valuation techniques for which the lowest level input which has a significant effect on fair value measurement is not 
based on observable market data.
 
 
There have been no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 during the financial year 2021-22 and 2022-23.
 
 
 The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Company’s assets and liabilities, other than those 
whose fair values are close approximations of their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value-recurring fair value measurements for which fair values are 
disclosed at 31st March, 2023
Date of 
valuation
Fair value measurement using 
Total
Quoted prices in 
active markets
Significant 
observable inputs
Significant 
unobservable inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)
Financial assets
Investments in mutual funds
31.03.2023
 445.48 
 445.48 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted 
investments 
in 
preference shares measured at 
fair value through profit and loss
31.03.2023
 200.00 
 - 
 - 
 200.00 
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2023
 6.71 
 - 
 6.71 
 - 
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2023
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 
(` in lacs)
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value - recurring fair value measurements for which fair values are 
disclosed at 31st March, 2022
Date of 
valuation
Fair value measurement using 
Total
Quoted prices in 
active markets
Significant 
observable inputs
Significant 
unobservable inputs
(Level 1)
(Level 2)
(Level 3)
Financial assets
Investments in mutual funds
31.03.2022
 269.74 
 269.74 
 - 
 - 
Unquoted 
investments 
in 
preference shares measured at 
fair value through profit and loss
31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2022
 3.44 
 - 
 3.44 
 - 
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts 31.03.2022
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
223
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
 
(` in lacs)
 
iii. Liquidity risk
 
 
 The Company’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts.
 
 
 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted 
payments.
Particulars
Less than 3 
months
 3 to 12 
months 
1 to 5 years
> 5 years
Total
Year ended 31.03.2023
Borrowings
 359.01 
 2,686.21 
 7,546.30 
 109.49 
 10,701.01 
Lease liabilities
 14.14 
 72.09 
 34.45 
 - 
 120.69 
Trade payables
 6,325.52 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 6,325.52 
Other financial liabilities
 636.62 
 0.00 
 0.01 
 - 
 636.64 
Total
 7,335.31 
 2,758.30 
 7,580.76 
 109.49 
 17,783.86 
Year ended 31.03.2022
Borrowings
 198.37 
 2,154.41 
 7,104.98 
 109.49 
 9,567.25 
Lease liabilities
 169.36 
 35.92 
 66.66 
 - 
 271.94 
Trade payables
 4,445.28 
 234.17 
 29.32 
 - 
 4,708.76 
Other financial liabilities
 732.96 
 91.72 
 459.25 
 - 
 1,283.94 
Total
 5,545.96 
 2,516.22 
 7,660.21 
 109.49 
 15,831.88 
 
iv. 
Excessive risk concentration
 
 
 Concentrations arise when a number of counterparties are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the same 
geographical region, or have economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly 
affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions. Concentrations indicate the relative sensitivity of the Company’s 
performance to developments affecting a particular industry. The Company is in automotive components manufacturing 
business and the management have assessed risk concentration as low.
44. Capital management
 
 The objective of the Company’s capital management structure is to ensure that there remains sufficient liquidity within the Company 
to carry out committed work programme requirements. The Company monitors the long term cash flow requirements of the business 
in order to assess the requirement for changes to the capital structure to meet that objective and to maintain flexibility.
 
 The Company manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes to economic conditions. To maintain 
or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital, issue new shares for 
cash, repay debt, put in place new debt facilities or undertake other such restructuring activities as appropriate. No changes were 
made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31st March, 2023.
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
Borrowings (non current)
 7,992.02 
 7,888.92 
Borrowings (current)
 7,086.34 
 2,919.49 
Lease liabilities
 90.99 
 161.16 
Trade payables
 6,325.52 
 4,858.05 
Other financial liabilities (current)
 636.63 
 641.28 
Total debts
 22,131.50 
 16,468.90 
Less: Cash and cash equivalents
 82.60 
 44.01 
Net debts
 22,048.91 
 16,424.89 
Total equity
 29,474.79 
 30,388.35 
Total debt and equity
 51,523.70 
 46,813.24 
Gearing ratio (%)
42.95%
35.18%
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
222
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
 
(` in lacs)
 
 
B. 
Foreign currency sensitivity 
 
 
 
 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of an exposure will fluctuate because of changes 
in foreign exchange rates. The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to 
the Company’s operating activities (when revenue or expense is denominated in a foreign currency). Foreign currency risk 
sensitivity is the impact on the Company’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. 
The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in USD, JPY and EURO exchange rates, with 
all other variables held constant. The Company’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Change in USD rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2023
+5%
 (18.02)
-5%
 18.02 
31.03.2022
+5%
 (1.59)
-5%
 1.59 
Change in JPY rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2023
+5%
 (8.09)
-5%
 8.09 
31.03.2022
+5%
 (1.06)
-5%
 1.06 
Change in EURO rate
 Effect on profit before tax 
31.03.2023
+5%
 (0.37)
-5%
 0.37 
31.03.2022
+5%
 (0.01)
-5%
 0.01 
 
 
 
 The movement in the pre-tax effect on profit and loss is a result of a change in the fair value of monetary assets and 
liabilities denominated in foreign currency.
 
ii. 
Credit risk
 
 
 Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading 
to a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its 
financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions.
 
 
 Credit risk from investments with banks and other financial institutions is managed by the treasury functions in accordance with the 
management policies. Investments of surplus funds are only made with approved counterparties who meet the appropriate rating and 
/or other criteria, and are only made within approved limits. The management continually re-assess the Company’s policy and update 
as required. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through counterparty failure.
 
 
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by the carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
 
 
A. 
Trade receivables
 
 
 
 Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Company’s established policy, procedures and 
control relating to customer credit risk management. Credit quality of a customer is assessed based on an extensive credit 
review and individual credit limits are defined in accordance with this assessment. Outstanding customer receivables are 
regularly monitored.
 
 
 
 At the year end the Company does not have any significant concentrations of bad debt risk other than disclosed in Note 10.
 
 
 
 An impairment analysis is performed at each reporting date on an individual basis for major clients. The calculation is 
based on historical data. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class 
of financial assets disclosed in Note 43. The Company does not hold collateral as security. The Company evaluates the 
concentration of risk with respect to trade receivables as low, as its customers are located in several jurisdictions and 
operate in largely independent markets.
 
 
B. 
Financial instruments and cash deposits
 
 
 
 Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Company’s treasury department in 
accordance with the Company’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties.
225
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
 
(` in lacs)
50. Disclosure under Ind AS 7 ‘Statement of Cash Flows’
 
 Ind AS 7 requires the entities to provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in liabilities 
arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-cash changes, suggesting inclusion of a 
reconciliation between the opening and closing balances in the balance sheet for liabilities arising from financing activities.
31.03.2022
Cash flows
Non-cash changes
31.03.2023
Fair value changes
Long-term borrowings
 8,630.36 
 162.02 
 133.50 
 8,925.88 
Short term borrowings
 386.40 
 4,140.24 
 - 
 4,526.64 
Lease Liabilities
 113.82 
 (52.50)
 26.33 
 87.65 
Total liabilities from financing activities
 9,130.58 
 4,249.76 
 159.83 
 13,540.17 
51.
 
Details of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
CSR obligation as per the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 
 23.68 
 51.77 
Amount available for set off 
 (7.23)
 - 
a) Gross amount required to be spent during the year
 16.45 
 51.77 
b) Amount spent during the year ending on 31 March 2023:
(i) Construction / acquisition of an asset
 - 
 - 
(ii) On purpose other than (i) above
 60.93 
 59.00 
Amount spent through related parties out of (i) or (ii) above:
- Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation (a related parties in the group where common control exists)
 60.93 
 59.00 
Vinay and Ajay Jain Foundation is engaged in following activities:
i) Providing healthcare and meal to unprivileged and downtrodden children which help them to 
pursue their education.
 5.00 
 - 
ii) Making payment of school fees of unprivileged children.
 10.23 
 9.56 
iii) Providing study material to unprivileged children.
 - 
 2.74 
iv) Plantation for promoting environmental sustainability.
 45.50 
 46.55 
v) Administrative Expenses
 0.21 
 0.15 
Total
 60.94 
 59.00 
c) Shortfall at the end of the year
 - 
 - 
Total of previous years shortfall
 - 
 - 
Reason for shortfall
 N/A 
 N/A 
d) Unspent CSR Account
i) Opening Balance
 - 
 - 
ii) Contribution for current year
 - 
 - 
iii) Amount spent on ongoing projects during the year
 - 
 - 
iv) Closing balance to be spent in future years
 - 
 - 
e) Amount transferred to any fund specified under Schedule VII as per Section 135(5)
 - 
 - 
 
 During the year under review the company has spent ` 44.49 lakhs (31st March, 2022: ` 7.23 lakhs) in excess of the amount required 
to be spent. The excess amount shall be carried forward against the requirement to spend up to immediate succeeding three 
financial years.
52. Details of transactions with Struck-off Companies 
- 
-
53. Details of Benami Property 
- 
-
54. Title deeds of Immovable Properties not held in name of the Company 
- 
-
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
224
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
 
(` in lacs)
45. Derivative instruments and unhedged foreign currency exposure
 
The amount of foreign currency exposure that are not hedged by derivative instruments or otherwise are as under:
31.03.2023
31.03.2023
31.03.2022
31.03.2022
Foreign 
currency 
Amount 
Foreign 
currency 
Amount 
Foreign trade payables
USD in lacs
 4.41 
 360.42 
 0.42 
 31.85 
JPY in lacs
 259.92 
 161.88 
 32.30 
 21.26 
EURO in lacs
 0.17 
 7.42 
 - 
 - 
Foreign trade receivables
USD in lacs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
JPY in lacs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
EURO in lacs
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
46. Balance confirmation
 
 Debit and credit balance of trade payables and trade receivables to the extent not confirmed are subject to confirmation and 
reconciliation with parties.
47.  In the opinion of the Board of Directors and to the best of their knowledge and belief, the aggregate value of current assets on 
realization in the ordinary course of business will not be less than the amount at which these are stated in the balance sheet.
48.  Disclosure of movement in provisions during the year as per Ind AS 37, ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’:
Particulars
Balance as on 1st 
April, 2022
Provided during 
the year
Paid / Adjusted 
during the year
Balance as on 
31st March, 2023
Provisions
Gratuity
 887.40 
 166.85 
 (71.61)
 982.64 
Accumulated leaves
 166.11 
 85.46 
 (62.38)
 189.19 
Income Tax
 121.42 
 119.60 
 (121.44)
 119.58 
Total
 1,174.93 
 371.91 
 (255.43)
 1,291.41 
49. Dividends paid and proposed
Particulars
Year Ended 
31.03.2023
Year ended 
31.03.2022
A
Paid during the year
Interim dividend for FY 2022-23 ` 1 per share (FY 2021-22: ` nil per equity share) of `10/- 
each
 140.00 
 - 
Final dividend for FY 2021-22: `1.50 per share (FY 2020- 21 ` 1.00 per share)
 210.00 
 140.00 
 350.00 
 140.00 
B
Proposed for approval at the annual general meeting (not recognised as a liability)
Final dividend for FY 2022-23 `0.50 per share (FY 2021-22: ` 1.50 per share)
 70.00 
 210.00 
 70.00 
 210.00 
 
 
 Proposed dividends on equity shares are subject to approval at the annual general meeting and are not recognized as a 
liability as at year end.
227
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
 
(vii) Undisclosed income
 
 
 There is no such income which has not been disclosed in the books of accounts. No such income is surrendered or disclosed 
as income during the year in the tax assessments under Income Tax Act, 1961.
 
(viii) Details of Crypto Currency or Virtual Currency
 
 
The Company does not deal in Crypto Currency. Therefore further disclosures are not given
In terms of our report of even date annexed
For and on behalf of the Board
For O P Bagla & Co LLP
Chartered Accountants
FRN No. 000018N / N500091
PPAP Automotive Limited
Sanjeev Agarwal
Partner
Membership No: 408316
Ajay Kumar Jain
Chairman & Managing Director
DIN: 00148839
Abhishek Jain
CEO & Managing Director
DIN: 00137651
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Sachin Jain
Chief Financial Officer
Place: Noida
Date: 19th May, 2023
Pankhuri Agarwal
Company Secretary
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
226
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for the year ended 31st March, 2023
 
(` in lacs)
55. Critical judgements, estimates and assumptions
 
1. 
Impairment of property, plant and equipment
 
 
 The Company assesses the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication 
that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. Where the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is 
considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss (if any) is recognised in the statement 
of profit and loss.
 
 
 While assessing the recoverable amount, the Company used the discounted cash flow approach including various significant 
estimates and assumptions such as forecast of future revenue, operating margins, growth rate and selection of the discount rates.
 
2. 
Loss Allowance on trade receivables
 
 
 An impairment analysis of trade receivables is performed at each reporting period based on the Company’s history of collections, 
customer’s creditworthiness, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates. Basis this assessment, the 
allowance for doubtful trade receivables as at March 31, 2023 is considered adequate.
56.  Additional disclosure / Regulatory Information as required by Notification no. GSR 207(E) dated 24.03.2021 which are not 
covered in any of the notes above
 
(i) 
 No proceedings have been initiated or pending against the company for holding any benami property under benami property 
under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and the rules made thereunder.
 
(ii) Reconciliation of quarterly statement of current assets filed with banks or financial statements
 
 
 There are no material variations between the quarterly statement of current assets filed during the year with the banks and the 
books of accounts. 
 
(iii) Wilful Defaulter
 
 
No bank has declared the company as “wilful defaulter”.
 
(iv) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies:
 
 
 All applicable cases where registration of charges or satisfaction is required with Registrar of Companies have been done. No 
registration or satisfaction is pending at end of financial year 2022-2023.
 
(v) Registration of charges or satisfaction with Registrar of Companies:
 
 
 No scheme of arrangements has been approved by the competent authority in terms of Section 230 to 237 of the Companies 
Act, 2013.
 
(vi) Utilisation of Borrowed funds and share premium:
Particulars
Description
No funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been advanced or 
loaned or invested (either from borrowed funds or share premium or any other sources or 
kind of funds) by the Company to or in any other person or entity, including foreign entity 
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the 
Intermediary shall, whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities 
identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) 
or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
No such transaction has 
taken place during the year
No funds (which are material either individually or in the aggregate) have been received by 
the Company from any person or entity, including foreign entity (“Funding Parties”), with the 
understanding, whether recorded in writing or otherwise, that the Company shall, whether, 
directly or indirectly, lend or invest in other persons or entities identified in any manner 
whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any 
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries
No such transaction has 
taken place during the year
229
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
NOTES
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
228
Form AOC-1
(Pursuant to first proviso of Section 129(3) read with Rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014)
Statement containing salient features of the financial statement of 
Subsidiaries / associate companies / joint ventures 
Part “A”: Subsidiaries
(` in lacs)
S. No.
1
2
Name of the subsidiary
Elpis Components 
Distributors Private Limited
PPAP Technology Limited
Date of becoming subsidiary
04.10.2019
10.12.2019
Start date of accounting period of subsidiary
01.04.2021
01.04.2021
End date of accounting period of subsidiary
31.03.2022
31.03.2022
Reporting currency 
INR
INR
Share capital
 50.00
 1,379.92
Reserves & surplus
111.99
(925.15)
Total assets
444.41
4863.98
Total liabilities
444.41
4863.98
Investments
-
-
Turnover
1608.41
1394.37
Profit before taxation
110.68
(758.35)
Provision for taxation
34.24
171.40
Profit after taxation
76.44
(586.95)
Proposed dividend
-
-
% of shareholding
100.00
100.00
1 
Names of subsidiaries which are yet to commence operations : Nil 
2 
Names of subsidiaries which have been liquidated or sold during the year : Not applicable 
 
(` in lacs)
Part “B”: Associates and Joint Ventures
Statement pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Companies Act, 2013 related to associate companies and joint ventures
S. 
No.
Name of Associates / Joint Ventures
Joint Venture
PPAP Tokai India Rubber Private Limited
1
Latest audited balance sheet date
31.03.2023
2
Date on which the associate or joint venture was associated or acquired
26.06.2013
3
Shares of associate / joint ventures held by the Company on the year end No.
4,85,00,000
Amount of Investment in associates / joint venture
4,850.00
Extend of holding %
50%
4
Description of how there is significant influence
Due to shareholding
5
Reason why the associate / joint venture is not consolidated
Not applicable
6
Net worth attributable to shareholding as per latest audited balance sheet
3529.67 
7
Profit / loss for the year
i) 
Considered in consolidation
(761.93)
ii) 
Not Considered in consolidation
(761.93)
1. 
Associates or joint ventures which are yet to commence operations: Not applicable 
2. 
Associates or joint ventures which have been liquidated or sold during the year: Not applicable
For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
Place: Noida 
Ajay Kumar Jain 
Abhishek Jain
Date: 19th May, 2023 
Chairman & Managing Director 
CEO & Managing Director 
 
DIN: 00148839 
DIN: 00137651
231
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
NOTES
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
230
NOTES
233
Consolidated Financial Statements
Corporate Overview  |  Notice  |  Management Reports  |  Financial Statements
NOTES
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
232
NOTES
PPAP Automotive Limited | Annual Report 2022-23
234
NOTES
Registered Office
54, Okhla Industrial Estate,
Phase-III, New Delhi-110020
CIN: L74899DLI995PLC073281
